So just sit through that. Oh.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, I guess so. I think that is going to pop.
Yes I know I said something like.
That. So how's it.
Going. Yeah.
I'm. Not sure yet.
Yeah. It must be. Even better than that.
Yeah. Yeah.
Maybe some Americans. Are just.
Like us. How are you?
Exams, right? Yeah. You saw the invite for the beautiful game.
That's what I'm saying. So I just wanted to say yes.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. You going to get started on this project now?
Very much so. That's.
Assessment. And just.
To be clear. Yeah.
Okay, so welcome to my 2037 From Atoms to Images, but not with any optics.
It was previously called imaging with nonlinear optics, but with the same concept.
You see it permanently. Don't panic. It's the right.
So just to kind of welcome you all.
So this is the welcome lecture for the module.
My name's green I'm professor of by photonics.
I was also an undergraduate in Exeter. I've been here since 1995.
Um, and have you left? So just that's kind of a little bit about me.
I'm a professor of photonics. I'm also the director of, um, our nonlinear optical imaging facility here in Exeter.
Um, kind of nice point. I want to get cross is just how much I enjoyed teaching this module.
So it's really exciting opportunity because I've been researching in this topic for maybe more than 22 years.
I'm sorry. I'm struggling with my voice at the moment. So I woke up with dreadful sore throat this morning.
I'm losing it because I had this injection yesterday and it's going to come over, definitely.
So yeah, it's a really great opportunity. And what I really enjoy about this launch, it's given me a really,
really good chance to actually think if I was an undergraduate, how would I get into understanding how this stuff works?
So I've really thought hard and tried to link it back to all the fundamental stuff that you've learnt so far in your degree.
So let me come. You come here, we got 24 of you, so put your hand up.
If you're in stage one physics, there's two physics. So the bulk of, you know, we got a couple of natural scientists.
One. And I think there's another one. And Charlie, miss Missy.
So yeah, the idea is we we're kind of building up the picture from atoms all the way up to kind of images,
and how we can exploit nonlinear optics to do this.
So we're going to start really from some very fundamental points of physics.
And we're going to start by looking at how light not forgetting the nonlinear light interaction.
We're going to start by looking at how light interacts with materials and how it
governs basically the world that we see with our eyes how light interacts with things,
really understanding the kind of atomic that's what generates the optical signatures that we kind of take for granted.
And then we're going to start building up this picture slowly till we get to
the point where we can understand how nonlinear light interactions manifest,
and more importantly, how we can exploit those to overcome some of the limitations that we have with conventional optical illusion.
So you've all done waves and optics in the first year.
It's the natural scientist, not him. So that's that's a good segue.
Ways that optics is kind of fun, really. Probably more so than electromagnetism.
We're going to be looking at kind of resonance measurement kind of resonances,
kind of pushing somebody on a swing and kind of calculating resonant frequencies here.
So exactly the same concepts applied to when charges are driven by oscillating electric fields from light lasers or photons.
We're going to look at to a tiny little bit from the course you've just done on electromagnetism,
and also a little bit from quantum physics that you're going to use this term.
We're going to be looking at kind of how confining electrons into, into, into,
into potential wells affects the kind of wavelengths that they, that they absorb light out.
And then, of course, there's going to be some math. It's not hugely mathematical.
So we are going to be using kind of differential equations within solving differential equations and using complex numbers for example.
So everyone should be pretty comfortable with that. But the stuff that we're going to be building upon.
So the course itself is I've structured it into nine different topics, starting with the introduction, which is this week.
So today's lecture was basically telling you, welcome to Nonlinear Optics.
This is me. This is the topic. And then we're going to look at a brief history of nonlinear optics.
And then tomorrow uh yeah you can grab a seat tomorrow.
But then going to be kind of do a recap of the kind of prerequisite physics.
So obviously electromagnetism was kind of before Christmas.
You probably forgotten a lot of it already. Um, and waves and optics, you've probably forgotten some of that.
So we're just going to give a recap over the key bits of physics that I need you guys to kind of remember and take forwards into this module.
And then we're going to move on to kind of optical imaging and then slowly move through all the different parts of the module.
And each kind of section has its own page or box or section within it.
And you can find all the information you need about that topic within that box in L.A.
The other thing that I do for this module, you'll notice in red in week six, I don't put any lectures when you've got your midterm.
So there's two reasons for that.
The first one being if I've got a lecture on Monday Tuesday and your midterms on the Tuesday, nobody will turn up anyway.
And also it's kind of just nice if you guys have a break and be able to focus on revising for your midterms.
Um, you haven't lost my teaching hours because then I shift that bit into the May revision period and we'll have like a revision,
a couple of revision sessions in May just before the exam.
So you can kind of come and ask me questions, and I'll go through the recap and kind of refresh your memory.
Ready for the exams. Any questions or any questions on the any side.
So if you have your if you must get into the edit page. Yeah.
And he will not go into any. And you know where to find the recap videos.
Yeah. Brilliant. So each each lecture, I put the slides.
And there's no notes for today. But you'll find some notes in each of the early boxes.
So you've got the lecture slides. In previous years I put them up with PowerPoint files.
And then the students kind of set them as PDFs, because you can then kind of scroll through when you put your phone, you happy with that.
So some of the all the lectures are already on there from last year.
But what tends to happen is I kind of update them and tweak them every year.
So you'll be able to see what's coming up in today's lecture,
but then it might change slightly, maybe an hour before the lecture or slightly afterwards.
But generally the content information will change. Change too much.
Um, you'll find the recap for each lecture recordings on Ellie, and you will know where to find the recap recordings on the sidebar on the right.
And so that's pretty straightforward. And I'll also put PDFs on the visualizer pages.
So rather than using the pen on the board. Which some of you might not be able to see from the back for example.
And it doesn't show up too clearly on the recap. What I do is I use one of these things.
So that you can see me writing on a piece of paper on the screen.
And then all I do is I get to the photocopier after the lecture, scan it in, and then put it off as a PDF.
And then you've got an exact copy of what was written. Also quite important.
In each section, I put in some quizzes so that the introductory quizzes is really just a bit of fun,
just to check that you followed everything and you understood everything,
but really that these, these quizzes are there for me to check that you're understanding everything.
So if people are really getting a lot of particular questions wrong,
I can then go back and kind of say, actually, you know, let's let's recap this topic.
And they're also very important for you to feel confident that you're understanding and following the material.
So please do do the end of section quizzes because it's kind of unless people come and see me and say,
oh, you did a rubbish job explaining knocking me over again.
I don't know what you're struggling with and what are doing well.
So these quizzes are a really good way for me to kind of get a weekly pulse check on how well you're understanding the topic.
There are four practice problem sets that you'll find on Ali, and these are styled very much like exam questions.
They're probably not written with the same rigor. The kind of paper reviewing that an exam question would go through.
But they're really there to kind of give you some practice and to sort of get a feel for what the exam is going to be like that,
know the problems classes that you have as part of your kind of stage two,
where you turn up whether you kind of have formal problems, classes and they're not assessed.
And I've also put all of the past papers on Ali with the solutions.
So you've got plenty of opportunity to practice the exam questions, and you should feel quite comfortable going into the exam in May,
particularly since we'll all get together in May just before the exam and recapping all the topics.
So thinking about assessment, obviously it's going to be really quite fun.
That's a course and getting to enjoy it.
But obviously you're also concerned that you want to get really good marks is going to count towards your degree.
So let's look at kind of the assessment.
So if you look on the module descriptor does everyone know where to find the module descriptors by the way for the courses.
Yeah. So within the early process like module information you click on it and it takes you to the module descriptor.
And basically that tells you it's like the syllabus.
And then when you look at the kind of module specific skills that tells you what you'll be tested on in the exam.
So it's really important to read those and check that you kind of understand everything that's in there.
And if like by some fluke, I ask you a question that's not covered on the syllabus and it turns up in the exam, you can all complain.
Yeah. So please do look at the module descriptor because it literally tells you what's going to be on the exam.
So when we've got formative assessment that's assessment which doesn't count towards the degree mark.
And that's there to help you as part of your learning journey through the lecture calls.
So these exercises, the weekly quizzes and the practice problems at there to kind of inform you about how well you're doing,
to give you confidence, to kind of highlight bits that you weren't so good at.
And then you can come and see me or go back and work extra hard on those topics where we've got formal assessment.
This is the stuff that does count towards your degree mark.
So 70% on an exam and that happens in May.
And you've got plenty of pass papers on early to practice.
And then we've got 30%, which is the group assessment which I'll talk about in a second.
So I guess what's what's quite nice about how this is weighted is when you go into your May exams, you've already got the mark.
What you know, how well you did for your group assessment so you can feel quite confident, you know,
in terms of going into the exam, knowing that you've got quite a chunk of the marks for this module ready.
The other bit that I always flag up, um, and people always get wrong is when you do the module survey, you know, at the end of the term,
you get to click on this kind of thing where you get to mark me and then and then I get assessed and told off I get your score.
I always get marked out because there's no problems.
Classes with the optional modules.
So when it says well the problems class is helpful, click not appropriate rather than zero because it kind of affects the school.
So yeah so there's no problems classes. So just collect not appropriate.
Um in the in the accelerate survey.
So I guess the group assessment is everyone aware of kind of how group assessment works within group assessments on other modules?
People nodding. So you guys, you've been natural sciences. So the way it works is you.
You can choose your own groups and if you don't want to, I can assign you into groups.
And you work on a project, this assignment, and then you all get the same mark for that assignment.
Yeah, that's what's called a group assessment. And I introduced this for the first time last year.
And it worked really well. And the students really enjoyed it. And I was actually really blown away by the kind of videos that everyone make.
And I'll show you some examples later on during the course. But the idea is you're going to be making a science communication video.
So being a physicist or any type of scientist, it's not just about doing the science,
it's about communicating the science to other scientists and also, more importantly, to the general public in a way that they can understand.
So this is going to be part of the assessment for this module.
So are there any kind of budding Brian Cox is here that would like does anyone do YouTube videos already.
Them TikTok videos. Nobody does.
TikTok video. I've never done a TikTok video on YouTube. Does everyone know what TikTok is?
Or YouTube? You. But you're supposed to be telling me how this stuff works.
I'm like the old and you guys are supposed to be like, this is how you communicate these days.
So everyone is aware. It's kind of YouTube and TikTok and the fact that people communicate really like communicate through these things here.
So back in the day when I started doing my PhD, it was kind of the only way to present your data is to write a paper or turn up to a conference.
Nowadays, you can reach a far wider audience by using the internet to kind of present your work in the form of a video.
Um, and obviously there's a lot more to it than just kind of standing in front
of the camera and giving like a really important presentation on your topic.
So the idea is you're going to be you're going to be given the task of becoming the next Brian Cox and his production team,
and you're going to plan and kind of execute a short five minute video presentation,
kind of try trying to get people excited about the particular topic that you're given, explaining the physics behind it.
And then in some of the topics that you can choose,
you can actually do an interview where you get to interview a member of staff or an academic researcher working in that field.
So the idea is that you're going to kind of plan the questions,
you're going to develop the background research on the person and what they've done, and then you're going to send them the questions in advance.
And then if they're if it's an academic from this department, you can just arrange to meet them and tell them to do the interview.
I'm hoping this year to get some of my collaborators from around the world to join in, so you can kind of convene more teams,
call them and ask them some questions, and then make a nice video explaining what they've done in the physics behind it.
So is everyone quite keen on that? Yeah.
So I was I was really blown away when I saw the videos last year and like the, the quality and kind of thought that going into it.
So you're kind of introduce the topic. You'll do a mathematical derivation.
So this is kind of where the physics of the assessment comes in. And then talk about the example application.
And this could include this interview with kind of one of the world leaders in that topic.
But you don't have to submit this until week 11.
And I'll give you the kind of the briefing on the assessment, um, in a week, I'm just asking in terms of week six so you can focus on the midterms,
get them out of the way, and then you can start to think about this, this assignment.
Any questions about the assignment? Okay.
So we also I'm going to do some practical demonstrations.
So I guess you've been walking up and down this corridor in physics for nearly two years now.
What can possibly be like doors. Have you ever thought what's behind them? No.
Nobody still was punished by those. Well, you're going to find out what's behind some of these vitals during this time.
So this is one of my laboratories, the contrast facility. Um, so there's a couple of labs involved in that one.
So you'll get to see it there. You get to see in the biophysics laboratories,
get to look at lots of instruments and get some demonstrations about how we're using them to kind of we're using them to image cancer,
to kind of understand how plants uptake different agrochemicals.
So all these different examples. So for those of you that have long wondered what's behind these doors really?
So are all these signs like say caution, warning, danger. I mean, thinking nobody's actually thought, what's behind that?
Don't be afraid to put your hand up. I still walk around the building thinking, what's in there sometimes.
So anyway, for those of you that were wondering what's behind these doors, you get to,
you get to go in there and have a look around and get some demonstrations and all the textbook.
Does anyone bought the textbook yet? Does anyone buy textbooks?
No. So this is the textbook. Um, it's by this guy called persuade, who wrote, like, this amazing text on nonlinear optics.
And I'd say, unless you're going to do a PhD in nonlinear optics, don't buy the book.
So it'd probably hate me if it was bigger if I told you this.
But don't buy the book for two reasons. It's available on the university library as an e-book.
So if you go through the lines, you get the whole thing as a PDF.
Um, it's quite a nice book, and I quite like reading books rather than off screens.
But in terms of the content that we actually use from this book, we'll use about that much of the book.
So it's not worth buying the book unless you really like nuclear optics or both.
Yeah, he was a fantastic guy. So, so bad. Encouraging people not to buy his book.
Likewise, the the supplementary texts.
Um, we don't use them a huge amount, but these are here as a source of reference if you want to look at them again,
we've got them available as e-books. So this one is an e-book and the other two available in the library.
And you can just go get another library if you really want to look at them. But I've put a lot of notes.
All the notes for the really important bits are only as a PDF that I've written anyway from those texts.
So don't buy the book unless you really want to.
Um, and I've specifically chosen it because we have to pay for using books in the library.
Yeah. Do it. You go to the library. Remove. And today with the libraries.
So yeah, I mean, when I was a student, the library was like everyone was in the library trying to get books out.
But nowadays, with the internet, the libraries all become a kind of very powerful kind of resource for books and things.
They manage your subscriptions to journals. And people rarely ask me to take a copy of anything these days.
So that's kind of all that kind of housekeeping stuff regarding the modulus.
So we've got any questions or concerns or stuff I haven't covered.
So let's now start to look at the topic itself.
So nonlinear optics it's this year it'll be 65 years old.
Um so it's not pretty obviously 65 is not 65 yet.
Um, but you know, in terms of topics within physics, 65 is, you know,
like a baby compared to when you think about thermodynamics and all the other courses that you've been learning.
Um, electromagnetism, you saw lots of kind of pictures, black and white pictures of old men with beards and things.
And even Matthew introduces the topics here.
We're very much yeah, the topic is still emerging.
Um, almost all the people that come in working on this are still alive.
Um, so it's still emerging as cutting edge. It's a really active area of research.
Um, but as I said earlier, a ton of work, really hard.
People haven't got some feedback on this yet.
I've really tried to build everything up from the kind of fundamental principles that you guys should already know as second year physics students.
Yeah. So we're going to be starting from the very basics and building it all the way up to
the kind of more complicated phenomena that people are dealing with in any real sense.
And as I said, I found this really I really enjoy doing this because when you when you research a topic,
you kind of go in the quiet sort of the high level,
and it's not very often that you're actually forced to think, yeah,
I've read that equation loads of times, but I can't actually tell you where it comes from.
So it's been really nice to kind of work backwards and kind of put it all back in
terms of the fundamental electromagnetism to kind of build out from the very,
very basics.
So the idea is that by the time you get to the end of this course, we've built up slowly some stuff that you're already very comfortable with,
just some stuff that hopefully you're comfortable with, a bit less comfortable with and fun to.
So obviously optical imaging is the thing that's kind of driving the this this kind of field goal of this lecture course.
Um, so as I've said, we're kind of the title is kind of from atoms to images.
But now we're going to kind of step back and actually think about what an image is.
And obviously we kind of take it for granted that we that we see the world around us by looking at images.
So whether that image is on a screen. So images from the natural world around us that we're taking in through our eyes,
we've evolved to be able to extract a huge amount of information from a picture.
Yeah. So we can look at an image and extract a huge amount of information from it.
So if we think about imaging, whether it's microscopy or astronomy or photography or anything,
the kind of aim behind in behind taking the image is to kind of understand the spatial organization of materials at different scales.
Yeah. Which you all agree with that. So whether we've got whether we're, you know, using the space telescope or a microscope,
what we're trying to do is to understand how things are spatially organized and made of and how they interact.
And we can kind of come up with a few different kind of specifications for a particular imaging system, whether it's a microscope or a telescope.
So it might be how deep can you go into the object?
You know, if you want to see inside something to understand how that material or that organism works.
You want to look inside it, um, where it could be in terms of a space telescope, how far away you can see.
Can you see inside galaxies and things? Then we've got this kind of spatial resolution.
Does that anyone come across this term, spatial resolution that you all should have done.
But as you come across spatial resolution. In the first year.
But you looked at kind of resolving powers of telescopes. Do you remember that?
The radial criterion? Yes. So spatial resolution often gets confused with magnification.
Um, in an imaging system. But it's not the magnification.
The spatial resolution is how closely together two objects be before they appear as one.
So how it works the smaller separation between two objects. Well, you can resolve them as two separate objects.
So we're going to be looking at that in a lot of detail. And then we've got sensitivity.
What my sensitivity means. What's the lowest number of molecules that you can kind of detect with that imaging system?
Well, if it's a star like what's the dimmest call that you can detect at certain distance.
And then we've got specificity.
So specificity is if we're thinking, well we've got a sample and it's made up of a lot of different types of molecules.
We want to understand how they interact. But we need molecular specificity to be able to tell the difference between them.
Yeah. So we want to be able to kind of say these molecules interact with these molecules in this way to cell.
This is the nucleus. And this is like the other parts of the cell. This is how they interact.
So we've got these kind of performance,
the kind of criteria that we might want to consider until we come up with some other systems if we kind of thought about it for longer,
but these are kind of the popular ones. And then we've got kind of contrast.
So contrast isn't really a performance. It's kind of if you come across the term contrast before, where have you heard of a contrast?
So one hand, you might kind of say like contrast is like these two things contrast each other that you've got like black and white, complete opposite.
But the other kind of way you can use the word contrast is to think about when you've got an image.
If this was all black and white, we wouldn't really be able to tell the difference between the different structures.
So the contrast mechanism is how can we tell the difference between particular types of molecules or objects within the song?
Yeah. So how do we tell the difference? How do we show the contrast between the cell nucleus and the rest of the cell body and the stuff in between?
So using this image as an example, I picked this one, um, because it's quite a good way to demonstrate it.
What can you see in that picture? Anyone.
Just describe and kill somebody. Just be brave enough to describe what you can see in that picture.
If you had to describe that picture in words to someone that was on the other end of a phone call, how would you describe that picture?
Or taking a photograph? Yeah, it's a camera taking a photograph of mountains.
So you've got the mountains in the background. What have we got in the foreground?
Ross in the foreground, and we've also got some sky in the background.
So I picked this picture because I think it kind of describes all the different types of contrast mechanisms that you kind of get optically,
but take for granted. So obvious question how do you know that's across?
He said. It's gross and incorrect. Why is it gross? How do we know it's grass?
You? It looks like. Also it's shaped like grass. And what else I mean?
So this stuff over here, but in the middle ground, we're kind of guessing that's grass as well.
But it's not shaped like grass, is it? How do you know it's grass?
I'm guessing, but based on. It looks like fields.
What is it? Like a field. What is it about a field?
Middle distance. Yeah, but was it not helpful?
It's great. Yeah. So where does the green color come from?
That makes grass green. What's the compounds in select plants?
Yeah. Yeah. So chlorophyll is a pigment inside the leaf that absorbs light in the blue and the red.
So blue and red light absorbed from the sun. And the plant uses that to make energy.
And the green light just gets reflected. Yeah. So that's how we know that it's green.
So we have some specificity and we can kind of say that's grass I know that's a
plant because it's green and it's the pigment that gives rise to that color.
Yeah. So we've got optical absorption, wavelength specific absorption that allows us to look at it and make it kind of.
Our eyes have got three different color receptors. So a kind of a basic kind of spectroscopy system where we can say that's green.
Therefore we know that that's that's what tells us that it's the plant.
So also related to absorption was the camera black?
No light is coming through the cameras.
We've got some in front of the camera and the cameras between us and the sun, and it's blocking out or absorbing all the light.
And that's white paste. Black. Yeah. And then we've got the mountains off in the distance.
What about the sky? What caused sky? This guy in the picture?
Yeah. Orange. Yeah. So you guys shouldn't feel nervous about asking questions because that was, like, really easy.
So the sky is orange. Yeah. And why is the sky orange?
Sometimes you get sunsets red. So sometimes the sky is blue.
So what what determines the color of the sky? In this case, what is orange.
Interaction with the atmosphere. Yeah. And that scattering. So as we're going to look at a bit later.
Different wavelengths of light get scattered by different amounts depending on their wavelength.
And that determines the color of light scattered.
So here as we look at it later, what's what's what's the scattering process that happens in the atmosphere.
It's the name of the scattering. We're gonna love you later. Brady scattering.
You had a great scattering before. So, Lord Rayleigh. So light gets scattered.
Um, dependent by one over the fourth power of the wavelength, which means that shorter wavelengths of light get scattered far more.
The longer wavelengths light. So the sun's low, and we're looking directly at the light traveling through the atmosphere.
All the blue and green light gets scattered out sideways. And we're left with a kind of red, pretty orange view coming straight towards us.
And likewise if, if, if the sky was clear, we'd see the blue light, which is all the scattered light.
And that's why the sky is blue. So we've got absorption and we've got scattering.
Yeah. Um, and then I guess the last part that hasn't been covered, just pond.
What sort of contrast to be getting from the point. It looks about the same color as the sky because the light is reflective.
Yeah. So we've got absorption, scattering and reflection.
And the combination of them is the ways in which light interacts with the world around us.
And that governs why things look the way they do in terms of color and giving a shape, for example.
So we've kind of talked about the visible light kind of region.
So the electromagnetic spectrum goes far beyond the light that we can perceive with our eyes.
So we've we've developed um, kind of evolved to look at this very, very narrow range of the electromagnetic spectrum.
But as we know, we've got kind of an image in the infrared.
So you can do a kind of heat map of the world around you using infrared camera.
Um, these guys are using infrared light so they can see in the dark without being seen.
Um, and then in this case, we're using UV light to, to, to excite fluorescence and things within cells.
So imaging optical imaging. Imaging with light is far beyond the very narrow visual range that we see.
And that's another thing that we might want to use.
So previously I've kind of the previous slide we were looking at absorption scattering and reflection of the visible range.
But then when we move to other regions of the electromagnetic spectrum, the same processes of absorption, scattering, um, and reflection,
and in this case emission allow us to see other properties of the material, because we've moved to a different kind of frequency of wavelength range.
And we're looking at a very different kind of light matter interaction.
So picking the wavelength range that you have is your kind of biggest tool in terms of optical imaging
to understand how the material works and to give you different kind of levers that you can pull to,
to explore different properties of the material.
So most of what we're going to look at in the lecture course, we're going to be looking at stuff under the microscope.
So rather than kind of thinking about telescopes and cameras and things, most of the kind of nonlinear imaging occurs within a microscope objective.
And we're going to find out why a bit later. But to kind of a bit of a spoiler, it's because you need a very tight focus to do nonlinear optics,
and that's why it lends itself to microscopy applications.
So we're really kind of exploiting this light matter interaction,
allowing us to explore the different regions of the electromagnetic spectrum to, um, probe the materials.
So let's kind of think a little bit about the basics about like maps of interaction.
Are you all familiar with this equation? Yeah. And you're probably not because you didn't do Matthew's course.
But this is probably the key equation, the only equation that we're really going to use over and over again in this lecture course.
This is kind of the key principle that underpins nonlinear optics points of view where we're starting.
So if we're thinking about light matter interactions,
which is the thing that we're really trying to exploit, to use light to learn about the material,
the kind of key principle that we're going to use is that electric fields and light has an electric field associated with it.
Electric fields interact with charges. Yeah.
That's not you're happy with that. So if I was put in an electric field,
let's say I'm an on an electron and I've got an electric field going across from this side to this side, it's going to exert force on me.
In which way am I going to want to go? If that's positive, that's negative.
That way. So the electric field is kind of drag me off out the window because I'm an electron.
I'm negatively charged. The electric field is pointing that direction.
I'm going to go that direction. Does anyone know? It's a very stupid idea in every system to have kind of arrows pointing.
That way when the electrons go that way, isn't it? Well, why do we have that convention?
Yeah. It stemmed from how very rich people work.
Yes. So it's kind of historically when people first started playing with electric fields, the assumption was that the three charges were positive.
And obviously that's why they thought the positive charges go in that direction.
But then they later discovered that actually it's the electrons that means not the positive charges.
So light interacts with charge.
The charges feel the electric light, the electric field associated with the photons, and that causes them to move.
So if we think about a kind of a charge distribution within the material,
so we have a kind of positive fixed charge and then some electrons which are free to move a bit around those positive charges.
We apply our electric field. And then we get this displacement of the negative charges.
And we produce this kind of dipole. And this p this electric polarization is the dipole per unit volume.
Yeah. You're familiar with this. Yeah. So your dipole is kilometers.
And then because this is per volume is kilometers per cubic meter.
And that's why has units of kilometers per square centimeter. Yeah.
So this polarization just tells us for a given electric field how much you drag the negative charge away from the positive charge.
Yeah. And the key to kind of understanding images and how we exploit this phenomena to learn about the system and to create images,
is that charges are bound to the material.
And depending on what the material is, the charges will be bound in different ways.
And it's that kind of that binding or that interaction between the charges and
the material that tells us about the material and gives rise to the contrast.
So with that, it's that that determines whether the sky is blue or whether the grass is green.
Well, the camera paint on the camera frame is black. Yeah.
So when we looked at this kind of equation with Matthew last term, you just kind of looked at this polarization.
And I expect Matthew told you about this guy here with a big red arrow pointing towards it.
What's that called? What's the Greek letter?
Time. Yeah. And what is there in words?
What is Kai? What's. What's the name of Chi in this equation?
Electric susceptibility. Yeah. So that tells us how easy it is or how hard it is to drag the chargers away from.
From their equilibrium position. So some materials with a high susceptibility you apply electric field and they get dragged away.
Loads and other materials have a lower susceptibility applied the same electric field they don't with very much.
And the other bit that we're going to see is that Chi isn't a constant for a given material.
Chi is also a function of wavelength or frequency.
So it's easier to drag the electrons away from the positive charge at some frequencies than it is to others.
So materials the electrons within a material will have a certain frequency that they like to oscillate a resonant frequency.
And that's what tells us how the material responds to different electromagnetic radiation wavelengths.
So everything that we want to know about the material is hidden within this Chi property.
And I spent I think Matthew kind of ended this by saying he's going to treat it as a scalar,
but actually this is a tensor quantity quantities like a matrix that tells you how this factor maps onto this vector.
Yeah. Do you remember that? So that's really just tells us if we have an electromagnetic field orientated in a certain direction,
how is the resultant polarization going to come out?
Yeah. So it tells us about how it responds in terms of frequency and also in terms of the direction of the applied field.
Right. And the real key behind nonlinear optics is that this equation of polarization that I just showed you, we can represent it as a policy.
So you can expand that previous equation out into a series of polarizations that respond to each.
So the linear polarized ability and then the second order polarized ability and the third order polarized ability and so on.
So we've taken the same equation and we've just converted it into a power series where we have these
higher order terms that respond to the square and the third power and so on of the electric field.
And this is really the fundamental principle of nonlinear optics.
You produce the same polarization but just through a different nonlinear order.
So we're going to look at this in a lot more detail later.
So it's a kind of complicated way to excite a polarization within a material going to a higher order.
So why would you fold up exciting optical interactions in this nonlinear matter?
Well, everything is kind of on this slide. So it allows us to see things that are invisible with conventional linear contrast mechanisms.
Um, we can excite light matter interactions that would otherwise not respond to the wavelength that we've chosen to excite them with.
So, for example, I showed you examples of where people are using UV light within a microscope to excite fluorescence in samples.
UV has a lot of disadvantages associated with with shining it into materials.
So we can overcome that. We can excite UV transitions in infrared or near infrared, for example.
Um, if we can kind of come up with tricks to enhance depth penetration, um, and we can enhance the interaction efficiency.
So one key advantage. When we were looking at light scattering.
And I kind of said, ray scattering is the kind of phenomena that scatters light in most samples or objects.
So the scattered light scales with one over wavelength to the fourth.
So if you want to go deeper into a sample, deeper through a scattering media, without your excitation light getting scattered, what do you want?
A long or short wavelength? Looking at that equation that.
And if you ever get stuck, just. We can't see the sky now.
But just. Just remind yourself the sky is blue. So why is the sky blue?
Just the blue light gets scattered more than the red light.
So the sun sets red because you're looking directly at the sun and you're seeing the red light that hasn't been scattered and the sky is blue,
because you're saying all that is littered with all the scattered lines come out sideways.
So short a number on the bottom, you get greater amounts of scattering.
And this is significantly more scattering because it's to the full.
So if you want to go deep inside something, you want a long wavelength.
So you might pick an infrared excitation source, but then you can't see green grass on the other side because the grass absorbs in the visible.
So these are kind of these two things a couple.
But we're going to look at later how using nonlinear excitation can kind of overcome this and allow us to get the best of both worlds.
So onto kind of lasers. So none of this would be possible if we didn't have lasers.
So physicists love lasers, and there's, like hundreds of lasers in the department and every.
Who likes lasers here? Yeah, we all like daisies.
I got. So lasers are really cool, but obviously we don't just get money from the government to buy big lasers because they're cool.
They've got some really useful properties that allow us to use them for experiments.
So we can very well define the wavelength and band width, the width of the wavelength within the pulse.
We can produce some very high intensities. We can produce light that is coherent both spatially and temporally.
Have you come across coherent before. We'll just we'll just coherence in terms of light.
That means that all the way from serene space. So everything's oscillating in space.
When we get light from the light bulb in the ceiling, all of a sudden.
If we were to look at all the photons reaching us at the same time, they don't be different phases, oscillation cycles.
But if we have temporal coherence at a given time, when the light crossed,
when the light reaches my hand, everything is in phase oscillating, and it's the same phase.
And likewise spatially, if we took like a spot okay, let's focus the light into a spot.
Everything across that spot is all in phase. So that means we can focus it down to very small points.
And then finally we can get time resolution.
So it was really the invention of the laser that kind of kicked off the kind of practical fields of nonlinear optics.
So this guy in 1968 or him, um, in Malibu constructed the first laser.
And this was this must have been like really big in the 60s. People were kind of aware of kind of amplification by stimulated emission.
And people have been producing microwaves in this way before.
But he was the first person to do it with light. Um, and he took this kind of ruby crystal and then covered it in a photographic flash lamp to,
to excite transitions within that ruby, and then was the first person to demonstrate that you can get stimulated light emission.
So this was like massive. This was like a huge discovery in the 60s.
And literally a year later, after the first laser was made, that was when kind of nonlinear optics was born.
So literally one year after the laser was made, this guy was then able to publish the very first paper on linear optics,
um, where he showed demonstrated the first example of something called harmonic generation.
So he took, um, fayetteville's freebie laser focused it onto a small spot on a quartz crystal,
and then looked at the spectrum of light that was emitted from that crystal.
So the light gets focused through the crystal. And then here it's a prism and some collimated lenses.
And you know what prism does. It splits the light of different colors. Um, and then back in those days they didn't have pulse spectrometers.
They just had a photographic plates and a prism. And all the way up here, uh, around 700 nanometers.
Six. Nine. Five. You've got the red light. So this big spot here is the ruby laser.
And then all the way down here. Uh, 37347 nanometres.
So what colors? That blue.
It's this light blue. It's. He detected this really, really tiny spot of blue light.
And it was so small that at the time when they sent it off to be published,
the person that kind of checks the paper before it gets submitted thought that it was just like a speck of rubbish on the photograph and removed it.
But actually this tiny, tiny little speck on the photographic plates demonstrated that by exciting the crystal with a high intensity of red light,
produced a really small intensity of blue light.
And that kind of goes against your sort of goal of energy conservation, doesn't it?
So what? What determines that? The energy of a photon or the wavelength of a photon?
So you got these kind of quantized energy packets and it shouldn't be the case.
You know, you talk you've looked at kind of um. The photoelectric effect and quantum mechanics,
and you've kind of been told it doesn't matter how many red photons you you've shine onto this metal surface.
If it's below the work function, you won't get electron chemicals. Yeah.
Whereas here they've demonstrated that they've shown red light onto this crystal, and then they've got some photons coming off with twice the energy.
Yeah. And this is demonstrating something called harmonic generation.
So this goes into the power series that we looked at. They were able to excite light at the second harmonic of the excitation frequency.
And that was really cool. This is really where it started. And then over the years people have then developed something called ultrafast lasers.
So we need to hit really high intensities to excite these nonlinear processes.
You can focus it into a small spot, but you can also squeeze the light into a really short space of time.
And if you can do that, then you can hit some extremely high peak intensities.
And massive contribution to the field in the 80s was by this lady, Photon Strickland.
You got the Nobel Prize for this thing called chirped optical pulse amplification.
And this allowed people to really get some very, very high light intensity, some lasers to explore, some very interesting nonlinear optical phenomena.
And these kind of these pulsed lasers, we now just buy we take it for granted.
They just come in a sealed box and you switch them on and connect them to computer and produce the pulses.
But a lot of research went in to producing these very short pulse strings.
And that's something else we're going to look at in great detail.
So finally, at the end of the lecture course, we're going to look at applications of nonlinear optical imaging.
There's lots of different application areas where it's really taken off of characterizing materials,
chemicals, biological samples and environmental samples.
The medical industry can use this technique to target cancer, for example.
People can use it to detect explosives and and chemical agents.
And in all these different cases, there are advantages offered by nonlinear nonlinear optics.
And this is something that you're going to put into your science communication video,
kind of explaining to people how a nonlinear optical phenomenon works,
and then showing what people have done with it and how it's going to improve their understanding.
So that's the end of the kind of kind of hand-wavy.
Welcome to Nonlinear Optics lecture.
So tomorrow we'll be going through kind of just recapping some of the kind of bits of theory that you're going to need from last year and last term,
but I'm really just going to cover all the key bits so you don't have to relearn the whole bunch.
I'm just going to highlight the bits that we're actually going to use. And I'll put in bold, please do the weekly quizzes.
And they're really helpful for you to get instant to understand how well you understand a topic.
And I'm really fun and useful because it helps me understand how much you understand.
Yeah. Okay. So any questions? Okay.
See you tomorrow. Oh.
My gosh, I feel. Like, I feel like.
I think you're right. I.
Think I think. That's what you said.