I can make you. Something.
Okay. I need your help.
Want. To straight because I announce it the next.
To its parents in the.
Okay. Oh!
One. Oh six.
Oh my goodness. Yeah.
Yeah. It's. It's crazy.
That's why I just wanted.
To let you know.
Each one of them. Oh it's okay.
But it's. Also.
Important to you just like this.
I just I. Just.
I. Think that's good.
Yeah. Those people just got run past this. Really? Coming out of Steve's lecture.
So get cracking. So it's all about vibrational spectroscopy.
Um, so, yeah, apologies. Not going to get into this today because of the 2020.
So yeah it's really terrible that like, oh, I see a laser with robots I don't even understand.
Um, was it good for the data establishment screaming all the time?
Yeah. He's saying that we're looking at chemical specificity.
So this is the kind of holy grail in biological imaging, people.
Nice high resolution images. You want to do it in a non-invasive way, so that you're not burning the sample that you want to image,
and you want to be able to do it in three dimensions and scattering samples.
And as we looked at, um, instead of that going from we got from this slide, this kind of summarizes the polarization mechanism.
So it's this polarization back to P is the induced dipole moment.
Are you believe this is the materials response to the electromagnetic radiation that you applied to the material.
And the idea is we the same that we get you know, that we get to term is the frequency or wavelength of the radiation that we apply.
And by tuning the wavelength we can tune into different polarization mechanisms.
And when we're looking at electronic polarization we're looking at things like absorption of pigments in the tissue.
Or it could be to excite fluorescence in fluorescent compounds in tissue.
The big problem with electronic um polarization is a contrast mechanism.
It's a in direct contrast mechanism.
It's independent from the chemistry and it's the chemistry that we really want to image.
So if we're thinking about dyes, it's to do with the localization of electron over multiple chemical bonds within the atoms.
That gives us a containment lens L you know, for the finite square potential where we think of absorption in the same fluorophore.
Whereas if we think about atomic polarization where we're shaking atoms within molecules,
the frequency at which this occurred is unique to a pair of atoms and the bonds between them.
So here we've actually got this kind of direct chemical contrast.
We're tuning in to something which gives us information about the molecular environment that these charges are in,
rather than just about the electronic environment, which is what we looked at previously.
Um, so vibrational spectroscopy is a large field that kind of links chemistry, physics and biology together.
And the idea is this physicists, we're trying to harness this to give us like a fingerprint imaging of biological tissues and cells
so we can understand how that other organized how they work in how they change in disease states,
for example. So we covered this when we're looking at atomic polarization.
We're no longer just considering electrons bound to a positive charge to the nucleus.
We're now considering a pair of atoms with with unequal charge connected by a spring.
This time, the spring isn't the attractive electrostatic attraction between the positive and negative charges.
It's the balance between the atoms. Yeah. Again, it's it's a kind of it's it's it's generated from a natural statics.
But it's the, the chemical bond that keeps these two atoms together.
So we multiply this by two masses of the spring.
The masses are unique to the atoms that are in that particular bond.
And obviously combinations of atoms and that bonds and the basis of chemistry.
So it's like tuning into the resonance of these atoms connected by chemical bonds.
We're now able to access unique features related to the chemistry.
Using my voice. So the vibrational polarization we look at the time scale electronic polarization
is possible because you can make something happen on the order of femtoseconds,
because we've now got greater masses involved. This happens on a much slower scale.
So we're now down to the second timescales. As we said, there are two mechanisms infrared.
And then this thing that we're going to introduce called Roman scattering.
So our absorption is very similar to when we looked at electronic absorption.
You have quantized energy levels at which this quantum mechanical oscillator can sit at.
And this we get absorption of energy from the light electromagnetic radiation when we get a change in the dipole moment.
Yeah. Exactly the same as when we were considering the electrons shift.
So it only occurs when the incoming air function has sufficient energy to take it up to the next level.
We looked at his diagrams. This. Jim Blonsky.
Holds. Physicist. Might've been a chemistry teacher. Was a physicist.
Physicist. Make sure you can draw these these always 12 to come up in the exam.
So what are the solid lines that the bold solid lines in blue.
Electronic energy levels. The not so bold ones show the green.
Yeah, kind of privacy just gets redundant with us.
Said the no fault lines are in green.
They're not only color historic. Designs.
These are the primary sensor levels. And then sometimes in between shows we can send a lot.
And these are rotational interference. So we put electronic transitions here.
So solid arrows coming up show optical absorption between these electronic levels.
And then solid lines going up from the ground state.
First excited vibrational state corresponds to absorption of photons by exciting atomic polarizations for operational energy levels.
So make sure you control this particularly the one for resonance 21 seven.
We've covered the die metal of the diatomic molecule, the two masses connected by spring M1 and M2.
It's very close to K. You're happy with this idea that the restoring force increases linearly with the displacement,
which means when we when we take the integral force, we get a parabolic term.
So the further as you move away from the equilibrium position, the potential increase is quadratic.
Yeah. We're happy so far. And then the slight complication added I think we've added the spring constant.
It's just given by something we look at which has been measured for a particular problem.
So typically only single, double and triple given by figures of approximately this value.
We have to work with the reduced mass now because we've got two masses connected by spring,
and the reduced mass is m one times m two divided by one plus 18.
And you've all seen this before? Yep.
So we're dealing with the quantum mechanical system as we were when we were looking at the electronic absorption.
So we've got quantized energy levels. So this is how we have the quantized absorption of photons exciting from the ground state.
The first excited state for example. So we have integers of half h bar omega.
And that allows us to calculate these quantized energy levels.
So we get quantized energy levels of n plus half h bar omega is our resonant frequency.
And the key thing to remember about infrared absorption.
And I put it in a red box because you definitely need to remember it is in order for it in to infrared absorption to take place.
So for the chemical bond to be infrared active, you must get a change in dipole moment for the absorption to take place.
So if you look into more detail when you get kind of complicated molecular structures,
not all molecular vibrations result in a changing dipole moment.
So they're not infrared absorption active. So that's something to bear in mind.
And we're going to look at the other type of vibrational spectroscopy which is Roman scattering.
And that has a different criteria. Also in a red box.
And the 2 to 2 of the two techniques complement each other. So mu is a dipole moment and alpha is the polarize ability.
And there were function of frequency. Yeah.
So mu is the dipole moment for a pair of atoms, and p upon a polarization vector is the dipole moment per unit volume.
So when we're dealing with mean and alpha we're dealing with individual molecules or pairs of atoms.
When we're dealing with p and chi we're looking at the bulk response of a material.
So I kind of showed you these kind of like hand waving things where people wave their hands around pretending to be a water molecule.
But you can see, folks, it's okay.
Gets very just for something as simple as kind of these three atoms together, like an altar.
You can get lots of different vibrational modes, but the same set of bonds.
You get scissoring, rocking, twisting, whacking, all these different vibrational modes that give rise to a very complicated spectrum.
So this is for you to know this, this hydrocarbon, not a particularly big one.
So you can see you've got C-H three carbon hydrogen bonds, carbon double oxygen bonds, carbon carbon bonds.
And each particular component within that molecule has its own resonant frequency, given by the equation we just looked at.
So because it has a different square root of k upon the choose mass.
So you get this kind of series of peaks and each peak.
Well these are these on peaks. These are dips because we're measuring the transmission.
So this is showing what's been removed. So 100%, you know, 100% transmission and zero you've got everything absorbed.
So when you get a. Remember it's absorption. So the dips corresponds to an increase in absorption.
And each one of these shock dips corresponds to one particular vibration of most of a pair of atoms or bonds within that molecule.
So for something in a relatively relatively small molecule, this butyou know, you can see you've got very complex series of absorption lines.
And we we quite often call these or consider them a molecular fingerprint.
Yeah. So this is a unique vibrational fingerprint of butanol.
So if we could use this if we could image the sample.
At lots of different points. I measured the infrared absorption.
We can map out the chemical composition based on unraveling this complex fingerprint that we get.
And and there's a whole field of computational algorithms involved in kind of unraveling
these complex combinations of fingerprints to work out what you're looking at.
And with AI, artificial intelligence coming along,
there's not a whole field of research in kind of unraveling and using that to work out what you've got inside your sample.
So these are the vibrational modes, the kind of you can sort of think like molecules do, molecules dancing.
They can they can see which is stretching.
They can also set of different sorts of ways. And this is how something very simple when we modulate with this diatomic resonance,
when you start to put lots of atoms together, there's lots of different combinations that they can oscillate.
Collaborator. And that's how you build up this very complicated and unique fingerprint for that molecule based on their vibrational signature.
But you can also kind of think of it as a barcode of that particular molecule.
So we like calculations. So as an example, um, what what's really nice about this kind of experimental technique is unlike with the fluorescence,
where you're relying on the biochemist to tag the thing that you're looking for.
As physicists, we can actually calculate where this should be.
Just to verify that. So if we think about that carbon double bond oxygen that was in our view to now we can calculate the absorption matrix.
So we it was it's not clear enough.
Is it? Come out nice. Not very often. So we've got carbon.
Double bond oxygen formula for the vibrational frequency.
Is given by this guy. So let's replace Omega with new the simple frequency.
So that's where the one over two pi comes from. We were told we take it for granted that k is equal to ten times ten to the five grams per second.
And mean his average mass.
So what's the atomic mass of carbon?
Assuming it's not like one of those fancy radioactive isotopes.
12. 12. Yep. And oxygen 16.
It's because you've done chemistry. Yeah. So don't worry if I send you an exact question.
If I were to set an example question on this, I would do like a Higgs like atomic mass of carbon is 12.
And I'd give you those numbers just in case you go. So knowing those numbers.
So what does that actually mean? Telling my students what this 1230 would call.
Yeah. So it tells you if you were to have a mole of that substance, if you had a mole of carbon atoms, you would have 12g of carbon.
Yeah, that's the definition. So we've got 12 times 16 divided by 12 plus 16.
And that's the mass of one mole of the substance.
But we just want the reduced mass upon part of these atoms.
Yeah. So we have to divide by our gantries number to get us the mass of one.
Yeah. So if we put the numbers in.
You get one over two of ten times ten into five times 28.
We'll have a gantries number 6.2.
Yeah. Times ten to the 20. Five or 9 to 12 times 16.
Yeah. So obviously 10 to 23 is a pretty big number.
So you know the atoms infinitesimally small.
If you take 10 to 23 then you can actually play out graph.
So that's just how big 1026 and 6.3 is. So you put the numbers in you get 4.72 times ten to.
Um, just out of interest. What would be the, like, cubits around 10 to 12 ish hertz.
Kilohertz. Megahertz gigahertz. Terahertz.
Yeah. So convert to wavelengths.
So we get speed of light. 5.72 times 10 to 13.
And you get 6.4 times ten to the -six meters which is 6.4 events.
-six meters. Millimeters.
Micrometers. So that's the wavelength.
I think you would have to put infrared light that you would shine onto a material to get the absorption of that particular chemical solvent.
So. When we're dealing with, um, vibrational spectroscopy, which is helpful to introduce a new unit in wave numbers in inverse centimeters and.
There's no big sort of this notion of reason why we do this, other than that it's the convention.
And the reason it's the convention is because if you convert your frequency into wave numbers, it's quite in particularly interest centimeters.
It's quite a handy set of units to work with.
So you've just come from Steve's lecture on solid state physics.
Most of you have what sort of units to steam. We talk about a lot when he's talking about kind of frequencies and energies.
Electron volts. Yeah. Is Steve referring to energy levels and Fermi levels in terms of electron volts?
What's he? Don't go that far yet. All. Steve's always talking about electoral votes whenever I see him.
So solid state. You physicists work in units of electron volts.
And if you remember when we were talking about hydrogen absorption in one of the introductory lectures,
I kind of I quoted the answers to hydrogen for old.
Um, yeah. For hydrogen, it was 13.6 electron volts.
Yeah. And you're quite often told that it's 13.6 electron volts.
That was that is the atomic number. So if you go up to helium and we talk about.
Yeah. So, so they say this is work in electron volts because you get this nice round number.
What you don't want to be working with is something that's got lots of decimal points in it, because then it makes it hard to be very accurate.
So chemists and physicists like me that work in like graceful spectroscopy, like the idea of working in wave numbers in inverse centimeters,
because it gives us a nice number scale that contains all the vibrational notes that pretty much exist on a scale from 0 to 3000.
You got good precision, and it just works out quite nicely. It's a little bit hard to get your head around the first,
but basically it's just one over the wavelength expressed in centimeters, and it's just a hand to humans to work with.
So if we were to deal with the previous expression and we want to give, uh, arms up into wave numbers,
and the symbol that we use is, you know, going across it, so it's just the frequency divided by C.
So original answer. Oh, by the speed of light that comes out of teams of 4 to 2m.
And because we're working to find grace with spectroscopy, we like to probe this exactly the same two meters.
And it was a handy unit to work in because it gives us good precision.
So if we were to work out of meters or in microns, you'll find that to get the precision you need over all the different peaks.
So if we were to go back to that slide, you'll know that everything is kind of on this wave number scale and you've got all these peaks of cover.
There's a biological range and it's just a nice handy sets of humans to work.
So within the precision of 1 or 2 way, you can define the position of these things,
and it's useful for you to know what these units are and how to calculate.
So if we're imaging with infrared and you're going to see some devices that do this, some of the lab tools that we do later on in the course.
So we've got a few benchtop instruments.
If you an image um and so this is an example of same remember what type of image this is from the introduction lecture.
The one letter was H. The other one was E, so he would talk to later saying, this is the vegetable state used to stay in cans.
And then he was so inclined to pick and spit stains on the connective tissue between it.
Pathologists look at this and tell decide when people have got cancer tissue sections.
So if you take a similar tissue section you don't stay it with a chimney die, hit you totally.
And then you get an image and you and you put it into an infrared microscope.
And in every pixel it measures absorption spectrum.
So what you what you get is a data cube where you get x y coordinates of the image pixels,
and then the color bar marks out how strongly each of those pixels absorbs at a particular infrared frequency, which you plot in the z direction.
So you have this hyperspectral cube of data up. So each slice within that image you're in a different position of the infrared wave range.
So you have a spectrum vertically at every pixel.
And by using this the technique known as a key metric.
So using machine learning to to interpret this you can create maps plotting out different chemicals within that tissue section.
So rather than relying on the chemistry and equalizing, we've actually got direct access to the molecular composition within the tissue slice.
And depending how we choose to read that fingerprint to plot it, we can plot maps showing different chemical features.
And, you know, I think this is fantastic.
We've got access directly to kind of the molecular composition of anything we want to look at based on these complex fingerprints.
But there's a reason we don't use it. It's normally very difficult to use.
So working in the infrared region is really problematic.
So if this is somebody sat at their desk and this is a it might be a microscope.
Otherwise pretend it's a microscope using a microscope about desk. Everything around you in the room is emitting infrared radiation.
So you're trying to measure subtle absorption at different infrared frequencies against the massive thermal background of infrared emission.
So you have to cool the device so that nothing inside the detector is emitting its own direct radiation, which is problematic.
It's very difficult to get good quality optics in the infrared.
So you can't use glass. So glass absorbs infrared radiation.
So all of your optics have to work on reflective elements.
So the objective lens has to be using mirrors to bend the light rather than refraction in the glass for example.
So that makes it difficult. You can't you can't.
Everything absorbs in the infrared. So you can't kind of get depth penetration in samples.
Water for example, is an extremely strong infrared absorber.
So you can't use hydrated fresh samples. You have to dry them out.
Making it very difficult to to actually apply.
But you can't get commercial instruments to do this. And we can show you some and you do get very good results.
And the other big problem, what about the spatial resolution?
What determines the spatial resolution of your. Imaging with light.
Diffraction limit. What's the equation?
What's the positive fraction of enforcement? You. One wavelength.
So as soon as you move. So when we're talking about the visible range.
We were talking bang in the middle of the visible. We've got green which is 500 nanometers.
So being able to resolve things of around 300 nanometers of that wavelength, you've got pretty good spatial resolution.
When we go out to infrared, that carbon double carbon forms, the absorption band is at six and a half microns.
So we can only resolve things that a few microns in that wavelength.
And also if you go across that wavelength range with spanning a vast range of wavelengths,
so you get different spatial resolutions across different parts of your hyperspectral stack.
So the spatial resolution is one of the big limitations of infrared imaging.
So this is where Roman scattering is an alternative.
So instead of looking at the absorption of light through molecular vibrations
we look at inelastic scattering of light from these molecular vibrations.
And it's called scattering because it was first discovered by this guy called CB Roman who got the Nobel Prize in 1930 for discovering it.
Um, which was pretty cool. So it enables us by looking at scattering.
It enables us to measure up absent a frequency shift rather than absorption.
So we can excite or do the imaging with visible light.
So we get the benefit from high spatial resolution moving away from infrared absorption.
We can now use gloss objectives for example. And it gives us access to infrared frequencies with optical excitation.
And the big difference here is again it's in a red box not by accident.
In order for a bomb to be rolled inactive, the molecular vibrations must result in a change in polarized gravity.
So we've got this equation. What's mean? The dipole moment.
So for infrared absorption to take place,
we have to have a change in the type of moment the Roman scattering we're interested in and also the polarized affinity.
So for infrared as the phone vibrates you've got a change in the dipole moment.
So Roman scattering to take place. It only happens if the polarized ability changes as this bond oscillates.
So when the patterns are then the change in the the ease at which the bond becomes polarized is a function of how far apart.
Yeah. So we have kind of this is our this is what a Roman spectrum would look like.
So instead of a series of dips we've now got a series of peaks.
And what we're plotting here is the shift from the excitation wavelength that we excite.
So we send the light in our visible light. We are called the spectrum.
And the spectrum is good enough. So for example, if we look at this distance from the Roman, this is our excitation wavelength.
We excite to this when we use this virtual state, and then the emitted photon comes down, but it stops at the first vibrational state.
So energy has been lost to that molecular vibration. So we can have a look at the kind of physics behind this and exactly what's going on.
So rather than scattering, arises from a change in polarize ability with molecular vibration, this completely polarized ability.
So if we've got our excitation fields E and the function of excitation felicity.
No. Cause omega T. Yeah.
Just a sine wave. And that's a frequency of naught.
So we've got one sine wave. But now we then write our.
Just substitute in this guy into this guy and we now get into his dipole moment.
Is alpha times that equation for E.
But also our actions are oscillating.
So my actions are vibrating. Yeah. And then vibrating again.
We assume it's a sinusoidal vibration. So we can plot the displacement delta q d q as q normal cos.
Omega vibration T yeah. Two pi d t.
So if we look at the two signals, this is an oscillating electric field.
This is how the polarized ability is changing. If we then look at the induced dipole moment that we get we can see it's going to look like this.
So we've got this. We've got our electric field that we excite the bonds at.
And the polarized infinity is going to respond to. The dipole moment is going to come to that frequency.
Because the dipole because the board becomes easier and harder to polarize.
As it's vibrating. The electric field gets modulated by the polarized infinity.
Can you go further? Yeah. So here we are plotting.
They choose dipole moment, the ponds oscillating up and down,
and at the rate at which the thing is vibrating, it becomes easier and harder to polarize.
Yeah. So the position of those atoms as they go in great is changing how easy that form becomes to be polarized.
So we can deal with this mathematically. So we can take our polarized ability and it changes with position.
Q so we've got our polarized ability at the equilibrium position, and then we can take a Taylor expansion.
So we have we have to go to first term in the time of expansion the rate of change of the polarized ability with Q which,
which is what we've got here. And then that's multiplied by Q, which is this term here.
Yeah. So we take the point that the Taylor expansion D Q is the thing we wrote down previously in Q naught times, cos omega vibrational T.
Yeah. And now our polarized ability takes this form a constant term and oscillating term oscillating in the vibrational frequency.
So we substitute that into our phase equation for the cycle.
We get the same band that we always expect to get the constant time realizable t times our electric field.
Plus this second bit, which comes from the rate of change of polarized affinity with displacement.
Now you can see we've got cos of the electric field frequency multiplied by cos at the vibrational frequency.
And we then take this Trig identity.
Here, we substitute that in and now we get a term which contains the vibration, the electric field frequency minus the vibrational frequency,
plus another term which is the electric field frequency plus the vibrational frequency.
So we get our original. Life fields out.
So that corresponds to really scattering. So we're just shaking the phones and the electric bill frequency.
They reinvent probably in a different direction.
That's that's Brady scattering. And then we get one of each a positive and negative shift.
So when we plot this you get it's called sideband modulation principle.
We can also think of it scattering. So we've got this the carrier frequency.
The radio scattering frequency. We get something which is up shifted and something which is down shifted.
So you get a down shift is known as Stokes scattering just like Stokes emission.
When we're looking at presence. And if it's up shifted you get an anti Stokes shift.
But the real key here is that this shift. Is given by the president frequency of the phones that did the scattering.
So again we have this unique frequency. But instead of an absorption having to apply a broad spectrum of infrared radiation onto the sample,
we can take a narrowband beam of light, i.e. from a laser.
And then we measure a small shift inside of it and get a series of scattered peaks.
And that tells us about what's inside the sample.
We get a fingerprint. So if we go back to the same example of our, um, we see double overtones.
So. We've already calculated the frequency from and up.
So option lines to be at 1570 four centimetres.
Now we want to find out all the Roman ships with big.
Roman ship is going to be Omega. Either side at this 532 excitation.
So in order to calculate this it's pretty straightforward. So the Stokes line is equal to one over.
Excitation wavelength minus one over wavelength.
If the wrong digit. And we can replace one over the wavelength.
Rum and [INAUDIBLE]. With the wave number.
Yeah. Because that's the relationship between the wave number. So that's to.
Say well we do have to be careful of we were given our wave number in meters.
You must meters reverse 70m. We have to make sure the units of the same as always when we're doing calculations, we just have in mind for the units.
So I'm going to use the. Shift in centimeters, which means I have to transfer my wavelength.
You get to centimeters. Yeah. To always be consistent with your units.
That comes out at 580.6 nanometres.
So if you've got a scope shift or pollution of red shift to a low energy energy, it's been taken from our expectations made.
And it's been that energy difference associated with the molecular vibration.
If we were to look at the answer associate that corresponds to this, to the scattered photon gaining energy from that collective migration.
So ponder was already excited. At first vibrational level, it's already vibrating, interacts with the photon.
The photon takes that energy and it goes down to the ground state. You said that was from thermal excitation.
So typically people would not be using the anti Stokes emission to do imaging because your sample's not thermal.
So let's come back later.
Uh, how we can use light and nonlinear optics to populate that first vibrational state to make the anti Stokes signal much stronger.
Okay. So imaging with Raman it's done in the visible wavelength range.
So we can now get much higher spatial resolution.
We can choose to work with shorter wavelengths excitation which gives us better spatial resolution.
We can use confocal detection to give us 3D imaging.
Um, we get a choice of the wavelengths that we choose to excite with direct infrared absorption.
We have no choice. The polarization mechanism dictates what wavelength range we use.
Whereas here the excitation is now independent of the excitation.
The big trade off that we spend is it's a very weak effect.
So when you're dealing with something that's a change in the electric dipole or atomic dipole, it's a very strong absorption event.
These scattering events are about a million times weaker than absorption events typically.
So the downside is we have because we don't get many photons.
We have to sit and collect a spectrum for about one second to 10s per pixel.
But as long as you're willing to do that, you can build a very nice high resolution.
Roman maps in 3D. Again, our spectrum is treated as a molecular fingerprint,
and there are lots of computational methods where people can use machine learning to assign this factor to different components within the sample.
So here we've got some might think that like polymer beads or liquid droplets or some sort of emulsion sitting in a solution,
and by looking at that to do spectral decomposition, you can map out the.
Um, the Roman fingerprint of the solution.
Starting from the beads. Here we've got biological cells.
So the nuclei spectrum have a unique fingerprint to the rest of the cell.
Body has a different problem fingerprint. And then in Reddit, we've got some kind of, um, particles within the cells that we're looking to map out.
So these unique fingerprints allow us to get high resolution chemical specificity
from samples that have been stained by tuning in to the molecular composition.
So it's a good it's very important to understand the difference between Roman and infrared.
So Roman's much weaker than I are. So resident absorption is much stronger than scattering.
So infrared we resonance with the atomic polarize ability resonant transitions and very strong interactions.
We get strong absorption where we're from. And we're looking at scattering which is much weaker.
So we're looking at a change in polarized reality versus a change in dipole moment.
So I've listed the kind of the properties of the two.
So both infrared and raw and give us contrast.
The vibrational modes are required to change the dipole moment whereas broadband requires change in polarized ability.
So here we've got the absorption. We get change in the excitation.
Whereas in Rothman it's a transient distortion of the charged clouds to the atoms.
And we get subtle differences in the spectrum because of the differences in how the different modes are in a problem or oil activity.
So, Rahman, we we get a series of peaks that we measure the infrared.
We get a series of dips. You can see that the Roman and oil spectra are similar but not the same, so they provide complementary information.
And the spectra appear different.
So this is the same molecule this benzene molecule. And you can see this compares the Roman versus the air.
So it's very difficult if you have like a Roman image and an infrared image company.
Compared to that someone is just working with one or the other.
You can just shelf the spectrum from the pixels into a machine learning algorithm and can with data.
Tell you what you're looking at.
So the big problem that we got in in for using infrared as a contrast mechanism is the infrared has very poor spatial resolution.
Infrared gets absorbed by everything. And it's also admittedly everything around which is very tricky to work with.
And there's no real way to overcome the diffraction limit with the infrared absorption.
So people look to Roman to get high spatial resolution here.
The downside is that the signal's about a million times weaker than for us.
So as a physicist, you might think, well, as if I need a million times more photons that I tend to, I'll just get a bigger laser.
So obviously, if you went for a bigger laser, like a million times more powerful, you'd be going from a minimum of up to a kilogram of laser power.
Um, and clearly it's not going to be a noninvasive imaging method.
We're going to be kind of doing sample processing, inflating the sample if we choose to go just a million times more photons at it.
So to give you a kind of heads up at where we're going. One of the things that nonlinear optics allows us to do is to perform vibrational
spectroscopy in a way that we can't do with conventional light matter interaction.
So it allows us to get faster, deeper, and with higher spatial resolution that we can achieve with the techniques that we just looked at.
So we've kind of set the scene for nonlinear optical spectroscopy.
You now understand how infrared selection works and how Roman scattering works,
and how we can use that as a molecular fingerprint to get label free images of.
T cells and tissues. Anything else you want to look at? So chemical fingerprint imaging is the goal.
And these techniques do it without relying on staining it with with um um non endogenous components.
So to get the lovely fluorescent images the orange is being texted all the time.
You have to perturb the sample by dyeing it with different stains.
You're not looking at the natural composition of the sample on its own.
So any questions? If I'm further set the things in red boxes a key to remember.
So what's the fundamental difference between Roman and old?
The thing that was in the red boxes. The absorption to take place.
It requires a change in. Dipole moment and Roman scattering with flowers.
Change in polarize affinity with the population. Yeah.
So remember this one. Okay. See you next Monday. Thanks for having me.
Let's go. Buddy.
Come on. Yeah.
There's. Something in your.
Mouth. Yeah. Uh.
Yeah. So. Uh, yeah.
This is. This is why. It's not just something you do.
You didn't try. This.
It's fine. So I might say something about the versatility.
Uh, I used to think, uh. Yeah. Basically, I, um.