You. Know it's going.
To. Take some.
Time. And we don't.
Actually. Know what? You're right.
How's it going? She's doing well.
We got lobsters that Friday.
No lobsters. Oh, no lumps this week. What do we get up to this week?
Uh, it's like a tandem fight. Um, you know, is it the poster?
Yeah. Did you have to get them?
Send them off to get printed and collect them and put them up. Yeah. You listen to.
Oh my God. Oh! He's crying.
She was doing this. It's like a spider's web.
I don't feel like I'm not passing out. I don't know.
I didn't think it would hurt that body. Uh, let's get cracking then.
So. Yes. Today. And remember what happened this day in the election.
So we started to introduce the concept of how material can have a non-linear emotional response.
And the origin is involved in the optical response.
And it comes from the fact that in real materials, if you drive the charges far enough from their equilibrium position,
the potential is no longer a parabola, or the restoring force becomes non-linear.
If you stretch it far enough, it becomes non-linear, a bit like an elastic band or spring.
If you consider the spring to kind of have like a constant spring constant,
if you cut it far enough, eventually it's going to be the end of the story.
So today we're going to see what happens when we introduce a non-linearity into the Lorenz oscillator model.
And we're going to go through a little method or a mathematical trick that we used to be able to solve nonlinear differential equations.
And then we're going to do that for second and third order um susceptibilities.
We're going to write the susceptibility in the same way that we did for the linear case.
But using this this method to solve nonlinear differential equations.
And I've got a brief interlude to show you how to make cocktails talk because it gets a bit tedious a half hour halfway through break.
So a recap from yesterday. It's all down to this polarization.
And the polarization is mediated through the susceptibility tensor.
So if we have this linear response the material linear restoring force parabolic potential
drive the charges with a sinusoidal electromagnetic field of a single frequency.
You expect to get the polarization to follow the electromagnetic field and give you a sinusoidal polarization in the material at that same frequency.
It starts to get interesting when we move away from that parabolic, um, approximation,
and we get to the kind of more extremes where the potential becomes non-linear.
And here we then see that we get a response in P that no longer has the form of the sine wave that was used to produce it.
So this is really the the whole key underpinning, nonlinear optics,
because it allows us to create polarizations in the material at frequencies other than those that we draw the system at.
Yeah. And we kind of did this kind of hand-wavy explanation where we looked at the different shape and we said,
well, if you took the Fourier transform of this, it gives you just one frequency component.
However, if you did the same for these two guys, clearly it's not a single sine wave here.
We've had to add multiple sine waves together. So this is how the system allows us to create new frequencies and the ones that we use to drive it.
So the brief recap of the Lorenz oscillator model.
Um, so this is the equation of motion for a driven harmonic oscillator, which you should all be very comfortable with from your first year.
Everyone happy with this concept? Yep. So when using this to model the charges and how they're bound to the positive charge sensors,
we've got acceleration, the frictional force, the restoring force which is the spring constant.
And then the driving force which is our electric force, the electromagnetic wave.
And it's an ordinary differential equation.
It's nice and easy to solve.
We just take a solution of the form of a sine wave for omega, which is our driving the frequency of our driving electric magnetic field.
We pop that in. And what's really the reason this solution works is because every time you differentiate this with respect to T,
you just get the same function with something popping out the front. Yeah.
And then that will cancel the exponential terms cancel.
And then we can derive this position r as a function of frequency of the displacement as a function of frequency.
And from that reason you got to pay. Okay.
So now let's look at the situation where we're dealing with a real system where this this is something that we
get a parabolic potential is no longer true when we move to the kind of extremities or the larger displacements.
So we now have to remodel this restoring force to give us this non-linearity as we looked at yesterday.
We have to consider symmetry in the potential because as we discussed with this kind of hand-wavy term,
we expect second order and third order responses from symmetric and non symmetric materials to be different.
Yeah. So let's start with the normal center of symmetric materials.
So these should support both second and third order responses.
So we introduce this additional term into our restoring force.
So we've got our original restoring force linear with restoring force.
And then we have another additional term this kind of um perturbation where a determines the strength of the non-linearity.
So if you were to plot this graph making a very small it would look like a parabola.
And as they get bigger it becomes more and more distorted.
Yeah. When did you recognize the shape, by the way?
The red line respond to the real material. Where have you seen that before?
You come across the Leslie Jones potential and you've looked at kind of like the forces attracting electrons to material.
So this is kind of what why we expect materials to have this kind of shape, um, potential.
But typically for normal optical fields, we're right down here in the bit where this linear situation or this linear approximation holds true.
So we integrate it and we get the potential. And if you can see that it's going you put a squared or symmetric function into the restoring force.
Obviously you integrate it. You get something that power of three.
And that's what gives you the lack of symmetry. Yeah.
So now our equation of motion for the particle in this more realistic potential becomes this guy.
And this is the new term that we've introduced this additional perturbation to our restoring force.
And it's now a nonlinear ordinary differential equation which is not so easy to solve.
Yeah. So if we took the same approach where we just picked all to be a sinusoidal function of our driving force,
which is how we solved in the first place, you can see this term really screws it up for us,
because all the other terms, when we differentiate them with respect to Y,
you get the same functionality, cancels the r square term spoils that for us.
We can't use that method to solve the equation.
So we have to use something called a perturbation technique.
So if you come across perturbation theory maths so far.
Yeah. So it's very it's a kind of uh an alternative upper part of that kind of mathematical set of tools that we do.
So we start from an exact solution where we know the solution, and then we come up with a,
an amended version where we've added a correction term to make that solution closer to what we wanted to do.
So in this method we replace e with this term.
Lambda times E where lambda is this thing? We call it tuning parameter and it ranges from.
It's a continuous function for continuous value range one.
Um, and we just set it to one at the end of the calculation to get rid of it.
And the size of lambda characterizes the strength of the perturbation that we're going to apply.
So the bigger the lambda, the more nonlinear the system becomes.
So what we do we take our modified equation of motion where we've got the nonlinear term and this perturbation strength lambda.
And we seek a solution in the form of a power series.
And we pick a power series because we know we're looking for solutions for P and E in terms of P1, P2 and P3.
And we've already defined this as a power series. So we're looking for the solutions of our differential equation where R is a power series.
In lambda lambda squared lands the three and seven where the land term is related to the linear response.
Lambda two is related to the second order displacement response material.
So let's let me show you how we do this. Um, so I can cancel.
Brilliant. You see that carries a clue.
Okay, so for the no symmetric case. We've got a new equation of motion.
Uh, one. Dum dum. Is that big enough to read?
Let's go to gamma. Now, they this back to two.
It doesn't actually have to be an only. Is there some kind of consistency?
And it just means that the full width half maximum of your peak is governed by that the bandwidth of the president.
So you can come back? No, it doesn't have to be. That just means consistency.
And that's going to be the resonant frequency squared times are just a R squared.
And we're going to set that equal to. And, uh.
Thank you. Um, and it's this guy here that makes this difficult or impossible to solve using the simple method where we just shove the solution in.
And that's why we have to take the solution in this form.
So each term of the equation of motion proportional to lambda, lambda squared and longitudes each must satisfy the equation of motion separately.
Yeah. So we get a separate solution set for equations of motion for each order.
So first order. Second order first order. So first of all we want to say this guy is the r squared term.
If we're trying to replace in our equation so we calculate r squared.
So if we treat we're only going to take the first two terms.
In this because as we go to higher orders, they get vanishingly small and we don't need them.
So we're going to treat this as if we're time. It's going to be eight plus b squared.
So we get x squared plus b squared plus 2AB.
Yeah. So we're going to get lambda squared. Oh one squared plus lambda or.
Two squared. Thus.
Two lambda cubed. Oh one times oh two.
Yeah. Do you see what I've done? That one time's getting squared because we're going to insert that into that equation in a second.
So let's look at the first order. Turn in the equation of motion.
So we only want to pick out the values in R and r squared, which are proportional to lambda because this is the first order equation.
Yeah. So each term in or has to set has to satisfy the equation of motion just for the lambda terms,
not the lambda squared because that would be the second term. So we pick out the terms in R which are proportional to lambda.
So we've got lambda I double dot one.
Plus Lambda two. Gamma dot one plus omega naught Lambda.
Oh one plus. Now we get to the all squared pitch.
There's no if you if you look in all squared, there are no terms in land that.
Yes, you all agree. We just don't hear. We can't find a term proportional to lambda, so that's equal to zero.
And on the end. Lambda terms that we can apply and we can queue.
Um, and that's the same equation of motion that we got when we did the Lorenz oscillator model.
So it's kind of a sanity check. This additional term that we add in doesn't contribute to the first order of equations of motion.
So let's see what happens when we go to the second order.
So now we're going along through R and R squared and only picking out the terms proportional to lambda squared.
Yeah. So the first one we're going to get lambda squared o double dot.
And this is R2 plus lambda squared gamma auto two plus omega naught.
And, uh, squared. To us.
This time we go along to our R-squared equation that we've calculated.
And we're looking for this guy. Yeah. Because that's the one that's important to lambda squared.
Lambda squared. Oh one. Let.
And on the end here this term is lambda squared.
Yeah. It's only proportional to lambda. So that goes to zero.
So we've now got a new equation of motion that's different to the linear case when we took elements also into mortal.
And interestingly we've got a term in here which is proportional to the linear position squared.
And we'll look at that in a second. So if we then go to the third order.
Equation of motion. Now we're picking out terms in lands cubed.
So lambda cubed R2 three plus lambda cubed two gamma r2 three plus omega.
And 303. What do we get in this term.
So we go to r squared and we need to pick out the term which has a land cubed to it.
Yeah. So we now insert that guy into here.
So we get to land the cubed. One.
Two. And that's going to zero.
Yeah. So that's the equation of motion.
So we just kind of derived these these. I'll put these as PDFs on earlier.
So you have access to these. So.
I've got the wrong. Almost. So we took this equation of motion.
We used this perturbation theory to solve the differential equation, or at least to separate it into three individual equations of motion.
Each now linear in terms of the order that there is.
Yeah. Did everyone follow how to do that? Have you covered that technique in math?
Was that completely new to you? It is quite an it's quite a neat trick that we use for solving this particular type of differential equation.
So I guess you if you're kind of aware there are lots of different types of differential equations.
In each one you get kind of specific methods or set of methods to solve that.
And this is the one that we like to use for this guy.
So this gives us our equations of motion, each order each separately satisfying the the this equation for the individual orders.
And then once you've got the equations of motion you can just cancel out the factors.
So as I said they cancel out at the end. So if we take our first order equation of motion for the normal sentence media,
it's exactly the same as what we'd expect for the Lorenz oscillator model, which is ideal because that's what it should do.
We seek solution in terms of omega e to the I omega.
Um. And we shove that in the same way that we did for the Lorenz oscillator model.
And not surprisingly, we get exactly the same answer.
Yeah. So that's exactly what we kind of sanity check.
The first order response of this system gives us what we expect for the elements of some next model.
Now where it gets interesting is when we look at the second order equation of motion because this looks different.
And when we substituted in the different values for R,
you'll notice that all the all the original terms come out as a function of order to the second order displacement.
But what's surprising or interesting is that this perturbation term it contains r one squared.
Yeah.
And you might think, well, it's a bit odd that the solution to the second order term has a term in it, which is which is the first order response.
But actually that makes perfect sense because the driving force has disappeared.
The original driving force. And this term now becomes the driving force of our second order response.
And if we go back a slide, this is the displacement when we looked at the Lorenz oscillator model.
So this is this now becomes the driving force. So the first order displacement of these charges now becomes our driving force.
And that was the driving force that we put in. But you'll notice it's squared.
So the driving force of our second order equation of motion is the square of the linear response of the material.
So we'll get that. That's quite a key point to understand.
So when we were looking at this kind of point charge or single point charging mission model,
this polarization that we induce in the material with shaking the charges up and down.
That in itself becomes the source that drives the nonlinear response of the material.
So we then substitute this guy, the driving force, into this equation of motion stick on the right hand side,
because that's where we like to see the driving force.
We get something similar to the Lorenz oscillator model, except it's squared on the right hand side, exactly what we'd expect to see.
So an example that says it's always useful to go through examples.
And there's only so many examples that you can be asked to do in an exam in a second order.
We know exactly which ones they are. So for the second order response.
It's slightly different to when we seek solutions for the linear response.
When we when we're looking at the linear response of the material,
we pick a solution which is r is equal to r or e to the minus I omega t because we I'm interested in
omega for the second order response is if we're sending two frequencies in omega one and omega T,
we have a couple of choices. We can look for response a response in this case which is SJ.
So we're going to look for response of two omega one.
But we could do some frequency. We could look for solution omega one plus omega T.
So I'll quickly go through the example of second harmonic generation.
Two. Okay.
So we're looking at the example. S h j.
So we've got our second order equation of motion.
Yeah. And this d I just replaced the thing that's in the brackets that we have to that are an oscillating model between two term.
So we want to determine the response omega two by picking out components at omega two because that's the one we've chosen.
There are other solutions to this. But we're only interested in the second harmonic generation which is the response omega two.
Two. Omega. So we're going to seek a solution.
In the form that we're looking for. So it's going to be second order response.
So two omega t in that solution that we're looking for.
So just as we do when we solve the Lorenz oscillator, we're going to do the differentials over here.
So we can use them as a list. So we get minus J two omega popping out to the front.
And then secondly, boom, boom.
Word. The.
So we now shove these solutions into our equation of motion that we've calculated.
So we're going to get minus four.
I'll make a squirt. You can see close to gamma J two.
To omega T that's equal to a you.
Events will display.
Yeah. So just said. You want to pick out the terms?
Omega two. So we're going to get minus two squared.
So I've split up on what we have for Omega.
I put the two omega into the brackets, because that's the term that we're looking to pick out in the solution.
So we can then simplify that and get minus to.
You want to then create how the tuning turn.
This is the difference between resonant frequency and to make at this time, because we're picking out the solution for SSD.
That's all equal to what it was before. This guy now becomes us.
Teach you new term to make sure we just replace this stuff in the bracket with D is a function of two omega.
We know that our dipole moment is due to all possible which is alpha e squared.
Exactly the same thing that we did when we sold Florence Oscillator one to the oscillator model.
So here we are to. And we get.
It was a dipole moment in the second order 60.
Yeah. And then the final step because we want to calculate kind.
So we just took the which is dipole for particle.
It's the type of volume. Yeah.
That bit of a kind of lot to write out, but nothing particularly difficult,
which is solving the differential equation using the same methods that we did for the wrench oscillator model.
But we just have to be careful to pick out the terms that we're interested in.
So in this case it was separating out everything into two omega because that's the solution that we're looking for.
So that's the solution that we expect to get. Second harmonic generation.
And I'd just like to show you how to do it and all that.
So as I said, for the second order response, unlike the Lorenz, the linear case where there's only one solution that you expect to get,
there's a combination of omega omega one and omega two that we could have solved for.
So we could have solved it for two omega two.
So if we were driving it for two separate frequencies, you get one, for the other, we get the sum frequency generation where we solve it.
Omega one plus omega two or different frequency generation Omega one minus omega two.
And you can solve it for the optical rectification. Yeah.
So depending on which one you're asked to do, you just solve it.
Your solution takes the form, whatever is in the brackets of the nonlinear response that you're trying to calculate.
Yeah, I went in for time. So as promised, an interlude because that was like a lot mass the following.
So to say this getting all this, let's say some interesting set when we did the kind of trailers for the lecture course,
I think they're kind of one of the things I tend to get people interested in was you can learn how to make do in dark hotels.
So have you ever come across this stuff or Berocca?
Yeah. So people take it to kind of help boost their immune system.
And so it's basically a vitamin A really high concentration of vitamins.
And you've seen these guys before these kind of soluble tablets.
There's loads and loads of vitamins. They're like 20 times your recommended daily amount.
Um. And it turns out in vitamin B2.
So there's other vitamins in there that vitamin B2 has this chemical structure.
Why we interest. Why is this one going to be interest if we're interested in fluorescence?
What property of that molecule can you see. It's going to give rise to absorption in visible or near infrared near you feel.
Yeah, yeah. So we've got these double bonds in this ring structure.
So these conjugates like a chain of C double bombs.
And you've got some C and double N bonds in there as well.
So these these high bonds remember they do allow the electrons to become delocalized in the atoms.
And they get localized over a length L which corresponds to the UV.
And then we get this vibrational relaxation after we've excited it up to its excited electronic state.
And then you eventually get fluorescence light being emitted. This diagram is that of extremes.
And what's the name of the guy? That's Jeff Blonsky. Yeah.
So it's useful to be able to sketch these graphs because you can get asked to kind of show me the energy level diagram for absorption or whatever.
And this is kind of just to remind you kind of this is the G Blonsky diagram for fluorescent.
So yeah, back to cocktails. So if night this is just water.
They shouldn't look fluorescent. This plastic is actually fluorescent.
This. That's not the liquid. And that's just the kind of polycarbonate stuff that the, um, bottles made of.
So I've got a tiny piece of the baroque tablet.
If you've got a whole one and it just it just gets too concentrated. So you write, so you drop it in.
Turn the lights off, you see a dramatic effect. They should be able to see.
It's glowing green. Yes. So? So actually it's not fluorescent under white light, but under UV light.
You get this lovely bright green fluorescent drink.
Um, so you can mix it with vodka or other kind of things are available.
And you can also add different fruit juices and stuff to like change the color so you can go to two different colors.
And also really it's like a fluorescent compound, but you're allowed to drink it because it's like approved as a food.
So feel free to try that at home.
The other really interesting thing I discovered about this, so when you like, that was a tiny piece of the tablet, if you like.
Imagine drinking a whole one of these. These are like 20 times or 20 percentage of your recommended daily intake of the stuff.
So where do you think the access goes? When you drink it so your body can't absorb.
20 times its recommended is 20 times.
What is it? Yeah, it's like a one that 1,000% of your recommended daily allowance.
So what does your body do with that? Like excess stuff.
It gets excreted in the toilet. So it also turns out that that glows in the dark as well.
So you can kind of trace where the kind of fluorescent stuff goes.
So it's kind of interesting experiment if you've got a UV light at home.
Okay. So back to the storage. System.
So you can get those UV lights on Amazon for like £9 or something pretty cheap.
So where were we. Okay so we turned the non symmetric potential.
So now let's look what happens when we repeat this for a symmetric system.
And what do we expect to happen when we replace our normal symmetric system with a symmetric system for the second and third the responses.
Yeah, we expect the second order one to disappear. So this time we modify our restoring force with something which is r cubed.
So it's unsymmetrical when we look at the force.
But then when we take the integral it becomes a symmetric function.
So we've now got a similar very similar case another nonlinear order ordinary differential equation.
But this time our nonlinear term is in r cubed.
So we do exactly the same thing as we did before.
We take exactly the same method. But this time we're running it through the slightly different.
Yeah. Yes. You guys can't it down as you go?
Yeah. I don't like to access it on any of them. Oh, like.
So we've now got this modified, slightly different version of a nonlinear equation of motion,
this time with acute functioning is our nonlinear response.
So we follow exactly the same method.
So let's do that on paper. So we convince ourselves that it works.
Okay. So our equation of motion. Match rate potential is now.
Or double talk to gamma photons as a normal of the restoring force plus.
B times to three, which is our normal linear transformation.
Of driving force. So very similar. Except we now have uh cubed term in our equation.
So we're going to do exactly the same trick again. We're going to do a power series in Lambda.
And this time we don't want r squared. We want r cubed because that's the thing we can substitute into the equation.
So this time we want to calculate r cubed.
So if you kind of think back to that kind of how when you first learn to expand a quadratic things out.
So if we've got a plus b plus c. And with Cuba we're going to get.
Cubed plus b cubed plus c cubed.
3AB. You see?
Plus. Hey. Yeah. Do you remember that? Some kind of GCSE level maths.
So we now apply that to this term.
Ah. And we get. Lambda cubed are one cubed plus 6 to 6.
Or two cubed plus lambda nine.
Three cubed plus three and a squared.
Yes. So we look at the first order term.
Just to equation the motion. Again, we get exactly the same that we were expected to get from the oscillator model.
Look around here. There's nothing to land up. When we look at the huge term.
So we're trying to replace this guy. We look at some have argued there's nothing proportional to lambda, so we just insert zero.
Do you have a lambda on the right hand side on driving force?
So exactly the same solution that we got the symmetric non symmetric equation of motion.
So now let's look at the second order. Same process.
We're now in Lambda Square terms.
So we're picking out all the terms in all and argued that have lambda squared.
And then we get to our kids turn. We look along here and we find that there's nothing personal to Lambda Squared this time.
Yeah. So we've got kids now.
Six and nine. Uh, nothing contained within lands.
Acute. It's going to give us a lambda squared value.
So this guy goes to zero. And again on the right hand side there's nothing proportional to lambda squared.
So there's no terms that give us lambda squared when we keep that value at all.
And that explains why we don't get a second order response for symmetric potentials.
And then finally the third order. Waste motion.
We pick out all the terms and of course, you know, to land cubed.
The ones with land with the Dark Three in.
You get to the lambda, you get to the be all kids turn look along at all cubed.
And then we see we've got the term here. Yes.
So we now insert in here minus we got a.
And, uh. He moved up one.
So that's our third alternative. And instantly you can look at this and you see.
Well again just like when we looked at the second order response, this is the first order response of the material cubed.
So the the the polarisation between choosing the material by shaking the charges
is now responsible for driving the third order response of the material.
So zero response for the second order.
Now we can show that mathematically.
So yesterday we were able to kind of explain in a hand-wavy way that if you square E in order to P to go negative,
when you have a negative electric field, you have to have some break in the symmetry of chi to achieve this.
But now we can do it in a far more rigorous mathematical way to show that the equation of motion becomes not driven like there is no solution.
There's no driven solution to this term, and it's only the third term that we have which has this term in it,
which is proportional to the linear response cubed to the third order response material.
So we can do exactly the same treatment that we did previously.
We can we can look at the first order equation of motion substitute in whichever values of omega we want to do.
We look for a solution. And we get exactly the same solution that we would get for the linear response in terms of omega.
And if we set in again multiple fields, we can just label them as J in terms of their indices.
But you only get the linear response to drive it with omega one if response is a frequency omega one, and so on.
So we get exactly the same susceptibility function for the linear response.
Nonlinear susceptibility in the second order for essentially symmetric material vanishes.
So there is no right to displacement of calls to zero.
The third order, one becomes interesting again, because this, this term of one is our linear response of the material.
So the linear displacement of the charges are at this time that cubed.
And it becomes quite it's not difficult to solve obviously what we go through the second harmonic generation derivation.
And it wasn't difficult. And there was lots of writing here to copy things and substitute them and then divide them out,
putting that the response that you're interested in in the brackets.
So this time we have a lot more combinations of omega one, two and three that we might want to look at.
But the process is exactly the same. You just look for a solution in R, uh, where where you have the frequency,
which is the combination of the things that you're looking for that you want to solve for.
So I've never asked you to do that in an exam for the third order.
Not because it's too difficult. It's just a lot of writing and it's just really fiddly and you'll enjoy doing it.
And I want to not so, but I will ask you to do the second order responses.
So QG some frequency, some difference because it's the same process.
But you just need to understand that it's exactly the same process that we follow in the third order,
but it just becomes a real kind of mouthful to write these things out.
So this is the generic form where we just replace omegas, the three different frequencies with m and and p.
So and p could be one, 2 or 3. And you can see there are lots of different combinations.
They remember how many from yesterday. 44 discrete frequencies that you can generate.
Um, but this is the general form that you would use, and I wouldn't ask you to derive it because it's just it's just unpleasant.
So that's the end. So we've looked at what happens when we introduce a non-linearity into the events oscillator model.
And we've learned how to solve a certain type of nonlinear differential equation using this kind of neat perturbation trick.
Um, and this allows us to look at the differences in the first, the second order and third order response to symmetric and non symmetric materials.
Um and we can now derive nonlinear susceptibilities for second order processes.
So can you also understand the complexity of the third or the susceptibilities and how they're derived.
But you know I'm not going to ask you to do it just because it's a lot.
Right? So there's some reading to do.
So in the textbook. Um, there's.
It's chapter one, pages 2032.
Describe this. So you go back and you can go read through it.
He puts it really nicely. You can follow through the derivation.
And I've also put some notes on earlier for this particular section typed up basically a kind of
reduced version of what Boyd describes to kind of covered this lecture if you want to go back.
Um, but it's easy to find that quite complicated or.
It was a lot of maths, wasn't it? But when you look at the maths, none of it's difficult.
It's just solving differential equations, substituting solutions into your equation of motion and then picking out the terms that you want.
I understand that when you multiply it out for your images,
you then have to separate it into the case of QG into two, because that's the solution you're looking for.
Okay. So make sure you attempt the online quizzes only because they're useful for both of us.
They use with me to check how how well you guys are understanding it, and useful for you to kind of also see how you're doing.
Um, and I'll put these content early, and I'll also put up an example of how to do,
yeah, some frequency set first derivation as well because that's what I think said.
See you all next week. So.
Let's take a. Look.
Yeah. So if you. Don't.
Know. What. You're going to.
You. Know your own.
Little. Confirmation.
Like. This.
But. In the case of.
My blood pressure.
Visualization. This is. Actually not my class.
I.