Uh uh huh. Have to.
Excuse. Me? Uh.
Uh. Uh.
I realize your request for a signature.
On this case. Yeah.
So. I don't have any will.
If you don't. How's everyone doing this weekend?
Did you almost. It was come with the same coursework.
Or should you mention that it's steep? Managed to fix it? Yeah.
Okay. So I just want a quick, uh, reminder of where we are.
So while we're in week. Ready?
So almost halfway. So last week, we kind of started the kind of the bet on the nonlinear light matter interaction.
And we just agreed on that. Whenever you're solving so many differential equations using the perturbation method.
So that we can calculate or derive the nonlinear susceptibilities from the second and third order processes.
Did everyone find that? Okay. Yeah. That's probably the kind of trickiest or most kind of mathematical part of the course.
We're kind of introducing new concepts, new ways to solve differential equations.
So if you're kind of feeling like, oh my God, this is getting really difficult, we kind of peaked on the kind of the mass map side of the course.
Little bit more math today and tomorrow. But again nothing kind of majorly new.
No new concepts, just basic kind of rearranging of equations.
Um, so this week we're finishing off the kind of nonlinear theory where we just where we kind of reinvestigate the wave equation,
and then we look at why we need to use that wave equations for something phase matching.
But then I just wanted to highlight in red.
So there were no lectures for this lecture next week.
Because if you haven't forgotten, you've got your midterms next week.
Yeah. Is everyone remembered that. So you all kind of thinking about the midterms?
Obviously we. Yeah, we could continue the lectures.
But kind of historically of my experience,
not many people turn up on the Monday and Tuesday just before the midterms because you will frantically repricing it for the midterms.
And also, I think it's just quite nice to give you a break halfway through the lecture,
cause I like to focus on the midterms and then come back in week six if you choose to carry on.
But the content that I've removed from week six is replaced with revision lectures in May.
Yes. You remember this. So you're not missing out because in May.
So when you come back during the revision period, I'll schedule a couple of sessions where we can go through and do some revision stuff.
And generally people find this really useful because we're going through it just before you go into the, into the May exams.
So any questions or comments so far on how things are going.
I better join it. Anyone else? Nodding.
People shaking their heads. So yeah, let's get cracking on with that.
Is it? Got any questions or. Comments.
Okay, so I think we're just about to send out the midterm module survey.
So remind you of that when it comes out. And the other thing to mind will please do do the quizzes online because it's the only way.
Unless you come and see me to say stuff on something, it's the only feedback I get during the lecture course on how people are generally doing,
and I have tried to tailor those questions to make them useful for the exams.
And the people that have done those quizzes thinking you'll save them the revision session.
Just hadn't bothered. And there was nodding. Now it's quite good.
Okay, so today we're continuing on with the kind of theme of the nonlinear light matter interaction.
So so far we've revisited the, uh, the vents oscillator model.
Um, to look at how that works in the nonlinear regime.
And today we're going to move on from that, and we're going to revisit this thing called the wave equation,
which you derived in electromagnetism with Matthew.
So what is a wave equation? You got them in quantum physics as well.
There's this guy surfing wave. We all know what waves are.
And you derived a wave equation. And you've also worked with wave equations in quantum mechanics last term.
It's generally just in words.
You can someone explain to me what wave equation does and why do we want to calculate them and derive and why it's useful.
Did anyone think you would be told about wave equations at the time?
So it's, it's it's an equation that gives us a relationship between electromagnetic fields or wavefunctions of particles in space and time.
So we're going to later use these equations to work out how the fields interact with materials.
And we can solve some pretty complicated things by working out with these wave equations what we expect the electric field to be in space and time.
And you can use these to solve some pretty clever problems.
So you're familiar with Maxwell's equations?
Yeah. So don't worry. You don't have to remember them. I give.
I do give them to you on the, um, exam page.
Um, just as a kind of recap, we're now familiar with these kind of optical, nonlinear susceptibilities.
What what could you say about these numbers? Think big or small.
Really small number. So the linear susceptibility chi one is of the order of unity one.
Yeah. So the second order and third order.
And as you come to the high rollers they get decreasingly small.
And this kind of explains why you don't look out the window and kind of see bright UV
light being generated from the glass as the rays from the sun interact with the glass.
They're not doing second harmonic generation and burning us with Eevee.
These are really, really small effects that only happen when you can drive your system at really high electric fields.
Yeah.
So the susceptibility or the kind of the thing that tells us how strongly these nonlinear interactions happen in the material are increasingly small.
So the second order one happens with, uh, proportional to one over the electric,
the atomic field strength, the third over, the one over the field strength squared, and so on.
So really, really tiny effects. So now we're moving on from these kind of descriptions of the nonlinear interactions
and being able to calculate how the susceptibility scale with frequency.
Now we're going to start moving on to to exploring how the wave equation changes when we suddenly include nonlinear interactions.
Um, and we're gonna finally introduce some think you think about dispersion.
So you're familiar with the term dispersion. Where have you come across the term dispersion in optics?
Like this? Yeah, she definitely gets personal.
Fibers. What is it? What is dispersion? Wavelength light.
I mean, different speeds. Yeah. So in materials, different wavelengths of light experience different refractive indices.
And they effectively have different speeds in that material.
And this is how kind of rainbows are produced. If you're familiar with the kind of prism where you put a prism into some white light,
and the light gets better at different angles depending on its color.
And that's because each wavelength component experiences that material differently.
It has a different kind of retarding effect on the on each different wavelength of light.
And this comes from this Lorenz oscillator model that we looked at. Yeah. So we talked about this kind of resonance.
And you're kind of pushing the person on the swing. And if you drive them at the resonant frequency of the system you get that switches.
So this this is the origin of this dispersion. And we're going to see how dispersion effects the generation of nonlinear optical signals.
And this is one of the key kind of properties of nonlinear optics.
You have to consider dispersion. It becomes a real, real problem. And this is all in this lecture when we start to look at Maxwell's equations.
Kind of really ties it all together. So we're familiar with this idea that the nonlinear response of a material causes this induced polarization,
this capital p vector that we get the polarization or the induced movement time was a function of volume.
But we're now kind of looking into this idea that this nonlinear response allows that polarization
to be generated at different frequencies other than the ones that we use as the excitation.
Yeah. So we've introduced this idea of the non parabolic potential.
And if we drive it hard enough so that parabola starts to kind of get distorted.
We're now happy with this whole idea that the charges are oscillating.
And they start oscillating at frequencies other than the one we drove it with.
Yep. And this has a knock on effect when we start to look at the wave equation and look at Maxwell's equations,
because of the fact that this peak in different frequencies. And we have to kind of take that outside of the equation.
So and this all kind of leads on to how these frequency components become coupled.
So as we're going to look at in the next lecture in order for this stuff,
these processes to happen efficiently, the input fields have to be coupled with the output fields.
And this is where we have to consider the wave equation just to see how that works.
So let's look at second some frequency generation second order process.
So we're considering sending two frequencies or two laser beams into a chunk of
material that has a nonlinear optical response is non-zero for a second order.
And what does that mean about susceptibility tensor and symmetric or antisymmetric.
You know this anti-symmetric.
You look at non-zero chi2 when you break that symmetry line, because when it goes negative, we want to go negative because it's e squared.
If we have symmetry. He doesn't come back when he was negative.
Yeah. And then we also did the derivation of the second order susceptibility.
And we showed that if we have that distant the symmetric perturbations about parameter chi two doesn't it doesn't come out.
Yeah. So that's a good one to remember. So we've got our material on each atom within the material.
It's oscillating up and down at some frequency and it's generating its own miniature dipole.
Yeah. So we're shaping these charges up and down.
And part of that response to the two driving electric fields happens at the sum of those electric fields.
Yeah. There are other frequency components in there as well. So we've got second harmonic generation omega one and omega two.
We've got difference frequency generation. But here we're just interested in some frequency generation.
So if we kind of hone in on that frequency, we've got these tiny little charges oscillating up and down.
And a component of their motion is omega one. So we can see.
And that's great. That's the picture we've looked at so far.
And we've calculated the susceptibility for this for this to happen for some frequency generation.
But obviously unless we're doing like really hard core single particle physics, trapping single atoms in a vacuum and very sensitively measuring it,
you'll never dealing with single charge single atoms in these systems, but always dealing with a large number of atoms.
Yeah. So if you take a physical chunk of the material, whether it's a crystal or biological substance or a liquid,
we're sending our two beams into this real material and we're exciting a whole bunch of atoms to oscillate up and down.
We're excited a whole bunch of dipoles which are emitting their own little radiation fields over this point.
And by a whole bunch, we're talking huge numbers like the order of Avogadro's number.
There's a lot of atoms all oscillating up and down and missing their own little like holes.
So in order for us to detect something coming out the other side of that material, what needs to happen?
What do we know about interference and different waves?
We need them to act constructively. So if this guy is oscillating out to face with its neighbor, they're just going to cancel out.
Yeah. So we're not going to get any signal generated.
And this is where something called phase matching becomes very important.
So what we need is for all the dipoles oscillating up and down within that material to be oscillating in the correct phase,
so that every point, if this is kind of direction Z across the material,
uh, every point Z through that material, we want them all oscillating in phase so that they build up constructively in
order for us to detect anything coming out the other side of that material. And that's what we're going to start looking at now.
So we're going to be talking about k vectors.
So what are what are the what is k vector. What does it stand. What are we referring to here.
Way back to. Yeah. So in the space.
So k one plus k two need to add up to k three.
Pretty straightforward. So. The second harmonic or some frequency omega one plus omega two we know equals omega three.
And the wave vectors have to add up as well. Yeah.
And anything other than perfect phase matching we define this thing called delta k which is the phase mismatch.
Yeah. So if delta k zero everything is phase matched.
And we're happy when k delta k is not equal to zero we have a phase mismatch.
And we don't generate signal as efficiently as we'd like to.
Um so when we have a zero phase mismatch the field is going to be n times larger than it would have been done for single atom.
So the signal intensity scales with n squared.
Yeah. So intensity is field squared. So you just square the field to get the number patterns.
So everyone happy with this concept.
It's kind of a new concept of kind of looking at wave vectors optical fields.
So this diagram sometimes helps explain it a bit better.
You see that clearly? So we were thinking about some frequency generation as our example.
So we've got to make one. Also make it two.
Generate our third frequency.
Yeah. So that's the kind of frequency diagram that we're drawing.
So inside our real material. So we're not just dealing with single atoms.
So we've got a big chunk. And material could be a crystal.
And we're going to define this as the Z direction.
And we're going to send in our beams into the crystal.
And the way that the incoming light. It's going to be k one plus k two.
Yes. So we're taking this kind of arbitrary point to consider where omega one and
omega two interact with a particular atom to produce some frequency generation.
And at this point, it's going to set this kind of dipole oscillating up and down at frequency omega one plus omega two.
And that guy is going to emit a massively massively over kind of simple over scaled sine wave.
Because if I draw it more I want to go out of scale.
But you can see that it's going to emit light from that point, which is going to travel with the wave through the material at omega three.
So it's then going to continue on. Further this distance, said.
And if we think about how the phases are going to add up.
We've got totals this distance, said one. Plus said primes.
And at this point here. This is going to be the phase at that distance.
Yeah. And that has to be equal to the same distance.
Turns K1 plus K2. Yeah.
And then the next thing. Obviously these atoms answer that all by themselves.
And also we want to consider how the beam propagates if we consider another interaction with another atom a little bit further along.
Yeah. So again this is K1 plus K2 but it's traveled by greater distance z.
That the omega three signal, which is generated here in order for the light to be detected.
With any significant intensity. When it leaves, it has to have the same face when it reaches the end of that material.
Yeah, so that makes sense. So this is what we mean by phased array.
So as omega as the two input beams propagate through the material at every point where they interact with an atom,
they're generating that signal in phase relative to the position moves the z position through the material so that everything ends up in phase.
So this is exactly what we expect. Three is equal to k two plus k one where k is equal to omega one c.
But we have to factor in the refractive index. And this is where dispersion becomes important.
So we're used to kind of dealing with refractive index being equal to one.
Safer for air. But when we get into materials that won't go over the index something like water.
1.2, something like that. That's just an estimate.
An estimate. But it changes slightly with wavelength.
And this is where dispersion becomes important. So in order for phase matching to.
Happen. We need to rely on the facts, or we make the assumption that all the refractive refractive index is the same.
It's only three wavelengths of light or equals three k vectors.
And as we're going to find out later, this doesn't happen.
So we have to come up with a workaround to factor in non-zero delta k.
Anyway, back to the story. So everyone's happy with kind of how this idea of phased.
Amazing looks. This idea of phase two random phase matching. Anyone, anyone happy?
They were not happy. But you end up if you don't have to.
Okay, so I'll take it as everyone's happy. So.
That's what we want to achieve. We want.
You know, if the refractive index of the material for all three wavelengths, omega one, omega two is the same.
This is what happens. Yeah. So when we get to this point, the edge of our crystal,
everything is emitted in phase and our signal scales with n squared the number of atoms within that material.
Okay. So back to Maxwell's equations, which is what we're trying to um,
we're going to use Maxwell's equations to derive the wave equation for nonlinear material.
So you should be familiar with these equations. But you probably use them in a slightly different form.
Yep. So when you dealt with the wave equation in in electromagnetism with Matthew, you did for this term, if you had an E here didn't you.
Yeah. And instead of being equal to the charge density was equal to in that case you.
Road divided by its island. Yeah.
So all we've done, we've just taken the relationship between E and D and and changed the equation.
And again, for this person, this guy you were dealing with the kind of B in that equation.
So you would have had this version of it here. Yeah. But as we get to see it like these, the versions we're going to work with,
because we're going to make our material nonlinear in the sense that we have this induced polarization in the material,
which you do have in the linear material. But in the linear material, everything happens at the same frequency.
And you can just kind of everything's packaged up into E.
Yeah. But because our P can happen at a different frequency and with a different intensity response, we have to separate out E and P.
And that's why we're using D. Yeah. So everyone remembers back to the displacement vector.
Yeah. So let's see what works out.
So I mean if we think back to um just to remind you how you did the linear wave equation.
So this is a kind of brief recap from last term.
So really straightforward thing to demonstrate. So you start with this equation that you gave us.
Yeah. And then you take the curl of both sides.
Yeah. I said take the curl the left hand side and then take it to the right hand side.
And then what's the next trick we do? How do we get rid of that complicated thing?
We take it, we use this kind of trigger. This backed up. I tend to take.
Um, so you should have seen this one here. So it there's a better identity.
Um. Of the curl of a field is equal to this.
So we can substitute that into that to get rid of that horrible term on the left hand side.
What's this equal to? Remember, we've got charge density equal to zero.
Stop it in the code under the code Yara. If row zero.
Yeah, said that guy. Equal to zero.
And that's all going to be equal to minus dividing t will be.
And then we also just have to look back trying to get it all in terms of a.
So we just look at Maxwell's equations and helpfully he's given us this relationship.
And we can substitute that in there. To get it all in terms of a we don't have any current in this material 23 charged.
So this is also going to be equal to zero, which makes it a lot simpler for us.
So we then write our. Nice useful equation.
And what? What are these two equal to? What happens if you multiply these together to.
We'll never see squares. Yeah. So very useful equations.
And this is a relationship between the electric field in space and time, which is exactly what we were after.
This is what we said was the physical meaning of the wave equation.
How can we test this equation to tell us that it does do what it says it does?
So what sort of solution? What sort of form is it?
So you know it's the minus least these brackets.
Just like all the other electric fields we've looked at. Make a tea?
Yeah. And what else do we have to add when we're dealing with fields in space?
Time and space. Well, boy, in the bracket we've just got.
This is just an angle that goes into this bracket.
So we're going to have k x. Yeah.
So Omega has the units of one over time K has the units of one over space which is putting an angle into that argument for the exponential.
And together these two terms tell us what phase I was sine wave has at a particular space and at a particular time.
Yeah. So beforehand when we were looking at the equations of electric field,
we were just dealing with e to the minus omega T because we weren't really dealing with how, how how it scales over space.
But here we want to put in an equation that has both space and time to tell us the phase of our electric field.
Yeah. So this equation tells us the amplitude of our electric field as a function of phase.
Yeah. So this this guy gives us space and it's multiplied by the maximum amplitude.
And phase is a function of omega t.
Okay. Thanks. Yeah. So any particular time or position in the material, you know electric field has a certain phase.
And that gives you the amplitude. So we can convince ourselves that this equation is correct by sticking that guy into there.
So if we on the left hand side what we get out. So we do the second derivative with respect to x.
So we get minus y squared a squared.
And then on the right hand side. You want to have a C squared which was desperate times minus I squared.
Next bit. Let me do the time derivative twice.
Yeah. Omega squared. So tense.
Everything out. And we get k is omega c which is what we expect to get the dispersion relationship.
Yeah. So we've convinced ourselves that equation gives us the relationship between the electric field in space and time.
And this is the relationship dispersion relationship that tells us how electric fields,
how we expect the electric fields to behave as a function of frequency and wave vector.
Nonlinear materials. Remember, we have to take into account the electric field and the induced polarization.
And we can't just rely upon them being the same. Yeah, because we can have this nonlinear source to terms.
To everyone happy. Yeah. Helpful recap for the wave equation.
So nothing particularly difficult to find. It just kind of using vector math to kind of rearrange Maxwell's equations.
So let's move on. So in the nonlinear wave equation we do exactly the same thing.
So we derive the wave equation in the usual manner we start off with.
The Maxwell's equation relating the curve E to the rate of change of B.
We take the curl of both sides that because we want to reframe it in terms of the polarization effects of p.
We just substitute in. We take our kind of h and our relationship between being H so we can replace the kind of P.
With equations related to the rate of change of D.
Yeah. So we've switched out our E with D.
Yes. If we're happy. So previously we just wanted one of Maxwell's equations.
So we could express that with E. But we just fiddle that bit using Maxwell's relationships so that we've now got a D here.
Yeah. And this is important because it allows us to replace D with epsilon e plus p.
So we're separating out the applied electric field from the induced polarization.
We follow the. People looking blankly at me.
You can see you can follow the maths. Yeah. So we've now got we replace D with E plus P,
and then we've got this additional term here which factors in the rate of change of the induced polarisation.
And we stick that on the right hand side because we're moving to the point where this is our kind of driving force.
We do exactly the same trick with this vector notation.
So that we can replace this horrible thing with with the curl of the curl with this guy here.
Remember, this vanished in the linear case because we could say there was no free charge.
So had. So this guy was equal to zero here.
We can't make that assumption. Because d is equal to e plus p, where p is this new frequency that we generate.
So we can't say that it's zero. However, we can just make the assumption that it's going to be really small.
Yeah. So the rate of the change of the code eight we can just say is negligible.
So we kind of just ignore it, but not for the same reasons that it was.
We could ignore it in the linear case. So we substitute we get we get rid of, we substitute this in, we get rid of the dot product term.
And now we've got a wave equation which is very similar to the original one.
But this time we have this extra force on the right hand side which is our nonlinear drawing to we had.
So it's what we want to do is separate out this induced polarization into its linear and nonlinear terms.
So the linear terms are all lumped in with E.
So we separate them out so that we have the linear term of the displacement field plus the non linear part of the polarization.
So we're just separating out the bits that were linear from the bits that are nonlinear giving us this equation here.
And then finally we can assume that it's an isotropic dispersion less media.
And then we end up with this equation which is that kind of standard wave equation that you see.
So we've got something very the same as the one we had for the linear term for the linear wave equation.
But instead of being equal to zero we have this driving term on the right hand side.
Yeah. So we've now got an equation that tells us how the electric, the induced electric field,
how the the amplitude of these electric fields change with space and time, and how the induced nonlinear polarization changes in time.
Yeah. Different for that.
So this is the kind of standard wave equation that you see below.
Linear optics, which are almost the same process that we did for the linear wave equation,
except we just use the fact that d is equal to epsilon e plus p to separate out those two terms.
And then we end up with this guy, which is telling us how the the amplitude of the enfields and the induced polarization change in space and time.
Yeah. And as we're going to see in the next lecture,
we can then use this to predict and calculate how phase matching works and how fit non-linear signals propagate in materials.
So we have to consider dispersion in, you know, real material.
So to do this we just say that our electric field is the sum of multiple electric fields omega one omega t.
So and its integers Omega one, omega two omega three.
We have the same for our fact today and the same for our induced nonlinear polarization.
So we're just summing up all the different fields with their integers and one, two, three and so forth.
And obviously it has to be performed. That complex conjugate conjugates as well.
Yeah. So we kind of always assume there of this form.
But we have to remember that we get the complex conjugate where you have the of the sign.
And so yeah. So that's the kind of the final point we get to with the the wave equation.
We're neglecting dissipation.
So we're assuming there's no absorption of light in the material because things get a little bit more complicated when that happens.
But typically the absorption in materials is relatively large.
The applications we're looking at. So this equation holds true.
And we have this nonlinear wave equation which has to be satisfied that each of the
components within the light fill the light fields that we that we excite the sample with.
So that was pretty straightforward. Yeah. Everyone follow that.
So it's not a massive kind of new concept that we've introduced.
We've just revisited the wave equation. And all we've done is just made a slight tweak to the derivation so that we can separate out E and P.
Yeah. And you can see why we did that.
People looking like anyone not happy?
Is anyone actually happy? You look at that few people nodding.
So I guess quite early on a Monday. So we're going to come back to this equation when we get on to the next lecture, which I'm going to start now.
And the reason that we need to use this equation is because we're going to see how the fields are coupled in a material.
So thinking about that very simple second order process, second harmonic generation.
We send one frequency and omega. And then the signal that we generate which runs generate signal to omega.
So twice the frequency a half the wavelength. And if you think about what's happening inside the crystal.
So the purple line is our omega one. And the yellow line is our signal at two Omega.
What we want to do we want to sending this this beam into the crystal.
And as the, as the, as the omega one goes into the material, it's going to get converted into into two omega.
So the intensity of our incident light is going to drop off as a function of Z as it travels through the material.
And the g signal, if we get it right is going to grow as a as as z increases.
Yeah. So what we're going to do is look at how we're going to look at the wave equation.
We can write down the wave equation for both omega and the wave equation r two omega two.
That tells us how the fields at omega one and omega two change with space and time through the material.
And in order for this to happen efficiently, those two equations have to be coupled in terms of their phase in frequency at time.
So we'll move straight onto that one now.
So you now understand the implications of inducing non-linearity into Maxwell's equations to write it, and you understand the effect of dispersion.
And you can read about this in boys. And I've also put a summary in the lecture notes.
So what I. Okay, so does everyone have to be happy for me to move on?
Your father wasn't particularly popular after all we've done.
He's calc is like reintroduce the wave equation and introducing non-linearity.
So now we're going to see how we use it. So we're introducing this idea of coupled waves and phase matching.
The first year I did this, the lecture was like on Valentine's Day.
So it will be funny to put this in, but obviously Valentine, what is it Saturday?
Okay, so we're not on Saturday, but you can see. So every February it's roughly around this time.
Okay. So a recap from literally two minutes ago.
We've described this as like this wave equation we derive.
This wave equation is exactly the same process you did for the linear one,
except we've just factored in the fact that our p can happen at different frequencies.
So we derived it from D so we could split it into these two terms.
Yeah. So we allow P to depend non-linearly on D.
If if p scales literally with E, you can just ignore it and you just lump it in the same way that you did with it anyway.
Equation. So we're looking at how the two frequency components couple in that kind of animation I showed you.
And if we go all the way back to lecture one where we looked at Peter Franklin in the
60s and 61 when he did the first physical measurements of second harmonic generation,
and he took a ruby laser and focused the light onto quartz crystal and then looked at the spectrum that was produced.
The red light was hugely intense. This massive, super saturated photographic film, and the tiny,
tiny amount of blue light that was produced could barely be detected in the photographic film.
So there were two reasons why the signal is so weak.
One was that the regulator wasn't particularly powerful by modern standards, but mainly it's because they hadn't considered phase matching.
So they just fired the laser at the crystal and see what they could detect from the other side.
And it wasn't until a few years later that people started to realize,
as they rotate the quartz crystal, they can modulate the intensity of the MSG light.
And that led people to realize they had to consider phase matching.
So we've already looked at this.
No, from yesterday from about two minutes ago. So K1 plus K2 must add up to K3.
Otherwise you don't generate the signal. Coherent digital anything produced.
So. When you have dispersion as we looked at.
So k is equal to n omega over c.
If n one isn't equal to n 2 or 3 you don't k k delta k isn't equal to zero.
So in all real materials where you have differences between the wavelengths, you have to put up with a non-zero delta k.
Unless you can design people do this. You could design some kind of metamaterial where you can physically control.
The refractive index at different wavelengths. Which we don't get to imagine.
Delta K is known, is not known, and is nonzero.
And we have to factor that into how we detect it. So we can work through a derivation to show what happens.
So sticking with some frequency generation which is not a simple one to work with.
We're going to consider a lossless non-linear material and we're going to deal with collimated.
Beams all of the same wavelength. So omega one is a single wavelength.
Omega two. A single wavelength. We're generating, uh, some frequency signal, uh, omega three.
And if we keep the geometry fixed. So we've got these collinear beams, this, that, that their direction is unchanged.
And the material orientation is unchanged. We can consider this as a scalar relationship.
So having spent a long time telling you that chi is a tensor.
We have to consider it for vectors. So the vector notation for this.
For simplicity we're just going to consider the orientation doesn't change and we can replace it with scalar.
So all this is telling us this is this is just the efficiency of the conversion from omega one and 2 to 3 at one fixed orientation.
Yeah, we could replace it with chi, but it just makes the calculation more a bit longer to write out.
So the our pivot to it three.
We've replaced Chi with this term here which is just the coupling efficiency from one wavelength to the other.
Yeah. So we've got our wave equation up here, the one we derive, the nonlinear wave equation.
And now we're going to start writing out the form at which our fields are going to take.
So because we're working with, um, some frequency generation, we're going to say that E3, the generated field is going to be equal to this equation.
So we've got our time varying component omega T and a spatially varying component case z.
And remember we have to factor in the complex conjugates and k three is equal to n three.
And we have to see. Yeah. And we can write it out in this way as well.
And. What we have to bear in mind is this amplitude.
So I've replaced a naught with a three.
Yeah. So this is telling us the amplitude of the electric field.
And the reason I've replaced the three with a three is because when we were looking at that diagram of the wave propagating through the material,
the amplitude of this field changes with the z position through the material.
So as this as we propagate, as we walk along the z direction, what we expect to see is the amplitude of e1 and e2 going down.
And the amplitude of A of E3 going up. Yeah.
So a three is a function of z.
It's all lumped in. Yeah. It's no longer a constant term.
And that has implications when we do some integration later.
So p three is a nonlinear source term again defined by this equation.
Yeah. And then we've got our two applied fields.
And they're complex conjugates omega one and omega two.
And again we replace the constant electric field with an amplitude which is going to vary with z as we move through the material.
Everyone happy. Okay.
Still happy? Yeah. So we take our wave equation and nonlinear wave equation.
And then we substitute in all those fields that I showed you on the previous equation.
And we get quite a lot of mouthful of terms coming out that the people slip up on is when you do.
Take the second derivative as a function of z. Of your electric fields.
When do I put it in bold that a three is a function of z?
When you take the second derivative of a function where you've got this guy being a function of z multiplied by this guy,
which is a function of z, but they don't scale in the same way.
There's no relationship between how they depend on Z. You have to use this derivative here.
Have you seen that before? That's like a standard integral, like one of the one of the integrate or differential rules.
You'll get given it on the front, for example, if you need it.
But all we have to do is just use that to say when we take the second derivative
of our electric field and put it into E3 and put it into the wave equation,
we get these three terms out. Yeah. From this rule here.
Yeah. Then we take this guy here, which is the second time derivative of the electric field.
We don't have to worry about the A term. That's not a function of time.
That's only a function of Z. We've got the complex conjugates all lumped together.
And then on the right hand side we've inserted our equation for p which is a function of e1 and e2.
So we've got the amplitude of e1 and e2.
And this guy here and again that complex conjugates.
So all we did was just take we just wrote down the forms that we expected each of the fields to take.
Yeah. Put them into our wave equation.
We were diligent enough to spot that a is also a function of z.
So we have to do that just like chain rule second differentiation or something.
And then we get these three terms out here. So that catches a lot people out.
Because you forget that A is a function of z which is the whole point of doing this.
And then what's really nice is that this. Third and fourth terms.
Here. Cancel out. So you can kind of they just disappear and then we end up with a much simpler equation.
Uh, the relationship between the amplitude of, uh, some frequency field as a function of the amplitude of action in the fields.
There's one thing I wanted that. Yeah. So nothing particularly difficult.
Obviously, there was a lot of writing to do.
You had to write down the forms of the fields, and then we replaced the constant electric field with this amplitude term,
which we know changes with Z, because this is the whole point of the company.
Two fields are going down, open fields going up. And then we put that into the wave equation.
And we've now got an equation that tells us how the amplitude of the three fields scales as a function of z material.
Yeah. So we'll pick this up tomorrow.
Um, and we'll look how we can use this to predict how we need to face mass in reality.
Okay. So I see how possible tomorrow. It's like.
It's. Like.
I see. You.
Have so many. Looks like this.
You know, that's that's one of the steps up.
Okay. Yeah yeah yeah.
Yeah yeah yeah yeah I know.
The thing that I think is good is we can swipe up until there's many different.
So, you know, you can say. Yeah, yeah I, I do I think yeah they might have to these.
Other. Oh.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know I feel like I know that we had a but also.
Uh. You know.