Oh. Yeah.
Oh. Yeah.
Yeah. You.
Know? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I thought drinking.
I said I would. This.
Is. Why?
I said. This because.
Yeah. I don't want.
To have cold. Freezing.
Hey. So we're on to almost on to our final topic, because the next course that we've got, today's lecture on laser sources.
And then next week we're looking at applications of all the stuff that we've learned, how we can apply,
how we can apply phase matching, how we can learn new stuff about biological materials and nanomaterials.
And then in the final week,
we're going to have lab tools where you can go around and see some of the labs and ordinate systems and microscopes and spectrometers that we've got.
And you can see the stuff in real life. So just out of interest, how many people are doing BSc and how many people are doing this?
Oh yeah. So put your hand up if you do. And then and since it's a few people.
So I'll be offering and this projects on like topics related to this, I usually get a couple of people from the course to get this project.
And of course I run it back projects at the moment, but not any of optics.
Um, looking at plots, which is quite cool. Anyway, so we're now looking at laser sources, the kind of final piece of the puzzle.
So we've looked at the types of the kind of optical, um, excitation powers we need to generate nonlinear optical processes.
How would you do this in high end? A, um, mixing objective different from the code spectrum.
So you can just do what it's very. Easy to too hot to cold.
So we're gonna be looking, revisiting the requirements for excitation for nonlinear optical processes,
thinking about how lasers work and how we use them to generate really short pulses.
And then we'll be introducing this concept called mode locking, which is the mechanism we use to generate these really short pulses.
And then finally we'll be looking at for kind of some of the exotic things that we've looked at either for,
like mixing some frequency generation and hearing from and where you may multiply the excitation fields.
We're going to look at how you actually synchronize these pulses together.
So I showed you this slide because it's really important that it kind of summarizes why we need really high electric fields.
So typically when we're dealing with kind of normal light linear light matter interactions, we're not driving the electrons particularly hard.
And they're pretty much just sat in a parabolic potential.
So we don't really observe any non-linearity in their response.
It's only when we drive them really hard. And for non-resident system we're talking about electric fields getting close to the atomic field strength.
And when we achieve this,
we then start to see these non-linearities in the restoring force that's currently electrons back to that equilibrium position.
And this. Is kind of the key to why we need high electric fields.
We've done this back of the envelope calculation. So we make the assumption that Chi one is of the order of unity and it doesn't have any units.
And then we apply these equations to work out kind of just rough back of the
envelope calculations of what Chi two and Chi three would be approximately.
And then when we knew the value of electric field.
So the atomic field strength, we stick it in this equation and it's in a red box.
Was it the red box? You need to remember it.
So this allows us to convert electric field strength into an intensity.
Remember its intensity that we actually measure up in the lab when we're measuring the energy in a laser beam.
And we put the the atomic field strength there as an approximation.
And it comes out that we need three times ten to the 20W/m², which is a ridiculous amount of power or intensity.
We talked about how we can achieve that intensity by reducing the area's square meter photons to generate the image.
In fact, we focus it down to a small spot to get good spatial resolution.
But we looked at, even if we focus it down to a diffraction limited spot,
we're still nowhere near the powers that we need to be without having really high average powers that are just going to burn the sample.
So this is why we then looked at the idea of increasing the intensity by squeezing the light into really short pulses.
So the peak intensity of these pulses is very high when we squeeze them into these kind
of quantum mechanical timescales of the order of 100 femtoseconds or a few seconds.
And then we did this calculation to derive what t the peak.
It's kind of on the left hand side. So it's the time bandwidth product.
And for a given pulse shape that has a certain number and we derived the time
bandwidth product for Gaussian pulses which came out around 2.4 41I think.
So if you know that number you can put it in and you can you can very accurately
convert the bandwidth of a pulse into the into the time width of the pulse.
So we've characterized that pulses. We have a repetition rate.
We have a pulse width. We have an average power. So given these things you can calculate some very important properties of the pulses.
You can calculate the energy per pulse I can choose. So you take the average power supply by the rapid rate of pulses per second.
And you get the energy of one. You can then use that to calculate the peak power.
So once you know that the energy in each pulse, you divide it by the pulse width.
And that gives you the peak power. Then divide by the area and you've got peak intensity.
Yeah.
So we've exploited both the spatial and time domain to squeeze these photons into those two dimensions so we can get really high peak intensities.
And the reason that this works. So if we were to squeeze the light into short pulses for a linear process and Brahman scattering,
we were saying yesterday it's a really weak slow effect, far too slow for imaging.
If you wanted to megapixel images, you'd be sat there for about two days trying to acquire a spectrum in each pixel.
Pulses don't help us here because Romans scales linearly with intensity.
The nonlinear optical processes that we're looking at scale non linearly with intensity, not average power.
So by squeezing the intensity to these high peak values.
So we then get this nonlinear response to these ridiculously high peak powers that we get with these short pulses.
The average energy is the same obviously in between each pulse we're not getting any response whatsoever.
If we average over that a whole bunch of pulses,
the signal that we get is significantly stronger by tens of orders of magnitude than if we just exposed it to the CW at the average power.
So that's one of the fundamental concepts. The other property that we looked at was kind of peak power versus bandwidth.
So if you want to get a really strong nonlinear signal, you want the shortest pulses possible.
So ideally you want about the about the shortest pulse you can kind of achieve in a microscope.
So remember dispersion is a bit of a problem. We go to class and we stretch our pulses out.
Any shorter than hundred femtoseconds you get it through all the class in the objectives.
Um so 100 femtosecond pulses give us a very high peak intensity intensity.
And this is ideal for things like two photon, three photon fluorescence,
second harmonic generation, third harmonic generation, and the four wave mixing.
Because here we just want a high peak intensity. Not so good.
If we're looking at the nonlinear Roman processes.
So compare with Roman cars or SRM, SRS.
Because here if we were to use 100 femtosecond pulses, we'd lose the chemical specificity.
We want to pick an excitation laser that has a bandwidth no broader than the line width of a Roman road.
Yeah. So that's the two different types of exploitation that we'd like around 100 femtosecond or a few picoseconds,
which allows us to target the Roman line with. So this is kind of still doing recap.
So let's look at the lasers that we'd need and start to think about how they're
made and the physical processes that we exploit to generate these short pulses.
So you've all covered laser emission level?
Yeah. We covered this in the introduction.
So you take your gain media and you achieve this thing called population inversion,
where you pump the game medium with like a high energy broadband light, like a flash lamp or something, and you excite.
The idea is to excite all of the atoms into an excited state, so that when your laser wavelength comes through,
it stimulates the emission or the transition from the excited state down to the ground state.
So one photon comes in, it stimulates this guy to fall down to here.
And then there are two photons generated from that transition.
And the key to this process is that the two photons they're emitted are perfectly coherent.
So the stimulation process or the first photon that came in by the virtue of this,
this kind of, um, stimulated effect, the two photons have to be perfectly in phase.
Yeah. And if you have a whole bunch of atoms in a laser cavity, and you send the photons bouncing backwards and forwards between two mirrors,
you get this kind of cascading effect where two, two photons stimulate two more photons.
You have four photons, those four photons, these eight photons, and so on.
So everything gets amplified up and you end up building this huge amount of coherent light traveling backwards and forwards in your cavity.
And it's the cavity that determines the precise wavelength that's emitted.
So the medium itself. So whether it's like a ruby laser determines the range of wavelengths that could be produced.
So there's a kind of. Range of energy levels that that that you can stimulate.
But the precise. Emission is controlled by the cavity.
So you need to design a cavity. The only supports certain wavelengths, the ones you want to produce.
And then the idea is the one of these cavity mirrors won't be 100% reflective.
It'll be something like 99% reflective or maybe 90% reflective.
So some of the output is leaving the laser cavity. Yeah.
This is all kind of not neat. People playing faces.
So the movie laser was the first one produced. So there was this flash them producing but basically big flashes of white light.
But then those white light pulses, you've got green and blue light which stimulates these two excited states,
both of which then cascade down into this kind of temporarily stable state, which has an energy level associated with the red emission.
So the electrons sit here for a certain amount of time.
So the idea is you get this population inversion, and every time a red photon comes through,
it's going to stimulate the emission down from this metastable state.
And we get the laser emission. Yeah. So that was that was the very first one that was produced.
And it was very simple kind of fitted into this. You hand ruby laser medium flash lamp.
And then the end of the uh three was kind of coated with a semi reflective coating.
So you can allow some of the light out. And at the other end you've got sort of 100% mirror.
Let's look at what happens inside the cavity.
So as I was just saying, it's the game material itself controls the range of laser wavelengths that can be produced by that material.
So depending on the lifetime. If that meant a stable state, I remember you got the uncertainty principle.
So if they sit there for a very short amount of time, you've got a big uncertainty in the energy.
So you've got quite broad width. And if they sit there for very long amount of time, you get very narrow range of energies within that transition.
So it's the game medium that controls the bandwidth.
So the laser game bandwidth, and it's the cavity which controls the wavelengths which are actually emitted from the laser.
So in a CW laser we can if when we have a mirror and mirrored cavity of a certain length L, we can support lots of different modes within that cavity.
Pretty much they're quantized, but to all intents and purposes got this infinite range of wavelengths that we can supported in this cavity.
But only the ones that fall within the game bandwidth can actually be produced.
Yeah. So you can see if we kind of fit sine waves into length L of a cavity,
you've got integer numbers of lambda lambda n which is equal to twice the cavity length of angel.
Yeah. It's a bit like that quantum mechanical thing you did when you were fitting things into a square box.
Exactly the same kind of process, but that if we then substitute in, um, c equals f lambda into this equation and set and this one,
you get this quantized difference between the modes which is c divided by L.
Yeah. So at cavity itself can support a large number of modes.
If we want to produce what we want a laser to produce CW continuous wave emission, uh,
single wavelength, the cavity needs to be designed so that it only supports one mode.
And people achieve this by inserting a very special narrow line with filters into the cavity,
which only allow one wavelength to propagate within the cavity.
Yeah. And that's kind of how I use conventional, um, helium neon laser or groovy laser works.
You have a very kind of well designed cavity with a quite posh, complex filter that sits in that,
that only allows the wavelength that you want to support in one of these lines, and you probably pick one of the ones right in the peak of the game.
Bandwidth to be to be get a fine tuning cavity.
But that's not what we want for making our optical pulses.
Remember we looked at this kind of. Description of how the pulses are formed.
So we want a cavity that will support a whole bunch of nodes within the cavity.
We don't want to filter out any nodes so that we we want to have the broadest bandwidth we can to produce short pulses.
And remember if we let's say if we if we line up all the peaks across all the different wavelengths within the cavity,
we get constructive interference. And as soon as these guys go up phase, you get destructive interference.
And that's what forms these short pulses within the cavity.
So we designed our cavity to support a large bandwidth of pulses, hopefully all the way across the game to the laser medium bandwidth.
And the idea is we need to somehow lock the phases of the of all the different modes so that at certain time points you get the pulses point.
And this is the tricky part. So.
The relative phase of all the different modes has to be locked so that a certain point within the cavity, everything is at the same phase.
Yeah. And that's the tricky bit where we have to kind of look to different types of
solid state physics to try and put something in the cavity that makes this happen.
And this is the mode locking. So.
The trick and it's really quite clever trick. I'm the person that came up with this is a really clever idea.
So the idea is you insert something into the cavity that favors high intensities.
So for the see told me you laser, you had to insert a filter into the cavity that selected one of the modes within the cavity.
So one wavelength of light only. Here we want a filter that's that favors high intensity regardless of what color or wavelength the photons are.
We only want to let high intensities of light through this device.
And the reason we want this is that we want it to favor.
We want strong, high intensity packets of light within the cavity to be passed through this device, while low intensity levels of light get absorbed.
And if we do that, we can squeeze the light into these short pulses.
So it only favors. The transmission of short pulses of light that have high intensity.
So on this graph, we've got time and we've got the optical power and then the losses,
so that this device that we've put into the cavity, the loss is high when the optical power is low.
And then when, when the, when all the modes are locked together,
somehow this device responds to the fact that we've got high intensities of light and the loss is drawn.
And by doing that, if after a few while tapping very quickly,
the laser locks itself into this very stable situation where the short pulses are created,
and by the nature of these short pulses,
that the only bits of that the only packets of light within the cavity that get passed through this dispersion device.
So there are a couple of different ways you can do this.
And it's the material or the mechanism that you choose that controls the pulse width.
Regime that the laser will work in. So the first one we're going to look at is something called a saturating absorber.
Saturating absorber mode blocking.
So we put this piece of material. Into the laser cavity.
And it's a kind of usually like a solid state piece of material.
And the idea is that you can. It has a valence band and a conduction band, and you can excite electrons up from the valence to the conduction.
And every time that happens, you're absorbing a photon. So this is light absorption.
Just as we looked at when we were looking at kind of contrast mechanisms.
We've got something which is kind of basically pigmented. And you can absorb photons through this process.
But if the intensity is high enough, if we put large intensity of light through this material or a pulses,
there's only a certain number of electrons in the balance band. And if the intensity is high enough that that absorption gets saturated,
everything is excited to the excited state and it can no longer absorb any more photons.
So what happens is, if you have low intensity of light, few photons get absorbed and no light passes through the cavity.
When the intensity reaches a certain level, that absorption gets saturated and these pulses get transmitted through the cavity.
So you set the amounts absorption to be relatively low.
And when you have high optical power, the loss dips.
And, you know, pulses pass through the cavity.
So you've got something in the cavity which favors the transmission of very short high intensity pulses through the saturate absorber,
um, and the relaxation time. So these these electrons won't sit up here forever.
So they'll sit in the, in the kind of conduction band for a little while, and then they'll cascade back down on the kind of peak second timescale.
So half a picosecond to 30 picoseconds. And if you remember this kind of the mechanism through which this happens is,
is through kind of heat transfer or vibrational transfer through the system.
So this happens on the order, the vibrational polarization that we're interested in.
So this type of laser is very good for the picosecond regime which is what we want for nonlinear ROM and infrared processes.
So everyone can see how this works. There were no calculations that year or anything.
It's really just understanding how the Statue of Absorber favours the transmission of short pulses, high intensity pulses of light.
If you want to go shorter. So picosecond pulses are great.
But as we said, we 100 femtosecond pulses. Um, for other applications.
The next or the other most common type of mode locking is curls mode locking.
So curls will occur if effect is an intensity dependent refractive index.
Say some green blocks means you don't need to remember this equation,
but it's just telling us that refractive index is equal to the normal refractive index plus a value,
which depends on the strength of the electric field. And it's a nonlinear effect.
So it scales with the square of the electric field, which means it's heavily affected by high intensity pulses.
So changing the refractive index, we need to think about how we would use that to give us this kind of intensity dependent loss within the cavity.
And the way you do it is to introduce a lens into the material.
So the beam profile of our laser beam, and we've looked at kind of how beams of focus,
they get focused down to something that's shaped very similar to a Gaussian.
So the intensity profile across your laser beam is pretty much a Gaussian, which looks very similar to the profile of a lens.
So when you shine the light through this term medium, it generates a lens inside the material.
So right in the center of the spot you've got a high refractive index.
And towards the edges of the beam spot. You've got a lower refractive index.
So you're generating a lens within that material which focuses the light down.
So high intensities of laser light get focused through the Kerr effect focusing the beam down.
And the trick that you use is to place an aperture on the other side of the color material,
so that only the high intensity pulses which get focused down make it through the aperture.
This is a really clever idea how you can basically insert some kind of satchel.
It's not. It's not based on saturation which which is controlled by the picosecond time scale.
This happens much, much faster. And we can support pulses down to a few a few femtoseconds.
And basically the limit here is the dispersion and how well we can pull the pulses back together.
So it's either a separate piece of material in the cavity or in a lot of cases, the actual laser material itself.
You has the kind of that. And most materials have this kind of nonlinear refractive index.
And if you take something like a sapphire crystal, um, and you just design the cavity so that only the focus beams get transmitted through the cavity,
the whole laser cavity itself only favors the high intensity pulses.
And this allows you to get down to a few femtoseconds.
So this is what we want for the kind of very short pulses when we have the high
intensity required for the nonlinear effects that on vibrational spectroscopy.
Any questions on modal locking or short pulses?
You can all see it's pretty simple concept.
It's quite technically challenging to build these things because they have to be built to a very high quality.
You can't have any dust in that.
They have to be they have to be pumped full of like an inert gas, because any moisture in the cavity will cause absorption.
And so there's a lot kind of technical stuff to go with it. But the principle itself, to make the short pulses is actually really simple.
So the next thing we're going to look at is for these very short pulses, the ones produced in the femtosecond and second lasers.
Dispersion is a real problem. So the color medium that you need and the gain medium that you need are kind of transparent lossless materials.
And they tend to be dispersed if they have normal dispersion.
So the pulses that you're trying to create are also trying to kind of pull themselves up while you're creating them,
because the red light sees a low refractive index of the blue light to make the very short pulses.
You need a very broad bandwidth.
So dispersion in the picosecond cavities isn't so much of a problem, because you've got a 10th of the bandwidth for the beam come from second pulses.
You've got ten nanometers of bandwidth. So dispersion really does become a problem in these very short pulses.
So you have to. This is the other complicated thing that you have to do.
You have to introduce something into the cavity to compensate for the dispersions that we've already looked at creating and present compensation.
So you put optical devices in which themselves disperse the light,
but you set them up geometrically so that you can give the blue light a shorter
path length than the red light to push the squeezed the pulses back together.
So within your laser cavity, you'll need some kind of grating compensation or prism compensation, which is really just working against that.
The dispersion in all the other optical elements when you're trying to stretch the pulses and these ones are compressing the pulses.
So again, there's no kind of calculations you need to do. Um,
the sort of thing you'd be asked is to recreate or draw these diagrams explaining
how you can control the path length of the bat versus the blue light.
Um, how this compensates for dispersion.
And then here's an example of a kind of quite standard, um, type of ultrafast laser with titanium.
Sapphire is, uh, this is what the cavity would look like.
You got the game medium, the titanium sapphire crystal, which is also the Coletti zinc material.
Um, and then you have your grating, you know, your velocity dispersion compensation, which is either a great small prism part.
And then here is where you have your aperture, which controls the Kurlansky bit,
which selects the lives of the short pulses through your through your laser system.
So that's how we produce the short pulses.
The next challenge technical challenge is synchronous excitation.
So the latest that we've looked at the very stable you can get them favorite.
But now some of them about the size of a shoebox. And they're completely sealed and pumped full of like nitrogen or some other
inert gas so that everything stays nice and stable and there's no absorption.
Where things get trickier is when we want to look at nonlinear processes where we have two or more input wavelengths.
So some frequency generation for wave mixing we need at least two input frequencies to do our wave mixing.
Yeah. And to do this we need two ultrafast lasers.
But more importantly. We need the pulses to be perfectly overlapped.
So we could just take two ultrafast lasers and stick them on the bench next to each other, like this.
Passive mode locking. They're just producing their pulses at whatever repetition rate and phase suits them,
and it's very hard to get them to produce those pulses at the same time.
And if the pulses don't go through the material. With an overlap.
The material doesn't see the two wavelengths and you don't get any of the wave mixing.
So temporal synchronization of the pulses is critical.
You need laser cavities, which have exactly the same repetition rate and a perfect overlap between them.
So this kind of difference between the pulses in terms of time between the two peaks is known as jitter.
So if the pulses are kind of moving around that you define, that's why the average time difference between them.
And you want your jitter to be almost zero. So this was one of it.
So when, um. Guys in the Ford Motor Company in the 60s did this.
They didn't use pulse lasers. Um, they use CW lasers.
And then I think someone else visited it and they were using nanosecond lasers, which is not ideal at all,
but they're better than CW lasers, and it was relatively straightforward to overlap them.
The real key to being able to use this for imaging is to use the very short pulses,
the picosecond pulses, so that we can do it with low average powers and we don't obliterate a sample.
Um, and in the early 2000s, this guy, Eric Keltner, who again was working for Sony Scene in Harvard, um,
came up with this idea, which was a way to electronically synchronize two titanium sapphire lasers.
And he did this the whole way. Um, and I remember so he.
You don't have to worry about how this works. It's really complicated, but essentially what it does.
He takes the output of the two laser cavities and has two different diodes.
He picks off 5.1% of the laser power, puts it on to two diodes, and then he can measure the pulses on those diodes coming out of those two lasers.
Um, and then he sticks it through some quite complicated, um,
electronics where they take like the whole, I think it's like a 19th harmonic of the repetition rate.
Um, they put it through like a mixing piece of electronics.
And then essentially what he comes out with is a kind of delay error.
Coming out of the the electronics and then one of the lasers, he mounted a piezo electric states.
So if you come across piezo electric devices before so some material that you can change the length of it by flying a voltage,
and then you can get things to move by a few nanometers to microns.
And the reason this is a good way to do this is because it happens very quickly.
So what he does, he has this amplifier and and he applies a voltage to this piece of electric mirror mount.
And essentially what he's trying to do is control the cavity length of this laser so that the frequency and phase of the pulses match the other laser.
And it's a really kind of clever way to do it, but it's really tricky.
And I'm telling you, he was doing it as a PhD student.
If take the date off the laser and getting electric, drill out material into the laser and mount this thing on.
But he got it to work. Um, and the problem is the temp.
But the error in the electronics is a few tens of femtoseconds.
And this is fine if you're working with picosecond pulses, because 20 femtoseconds is significantly smaller than,
say, three picoseconds, and you don't really notice the jitter.
But if you wanted to go to femtosecond excitation, say, 100 femtosecond pulses, the jet is now 20%.
So your pulses of energy overlap for 80% of the time, and the signal is a bit rubbish.
So we came up with a tentative to this.
So we took two again to tie sci fi lasers, much more modern lasers, much smaller and sealed.
And we used this trick, um, where we took the output of one of the lasers and took about 10% of that output,
and then just sent that into the cavity of the other laser so that that other cavity sees the pulses from this laser, which is already pulsing.
And then the curve ends in this mechanism that favors the short pulses also includes the pulses that we've sent in.
And that just automatically locks that cavity to the other laser.
And by doing that, you can get down to much smaller values of jitter.
Um, in fact, that the jitter that we had in our paper was too small for us to measure so we could overlap some femtosecond pulses really,
really nicely. Is there an adventure?
Yes. When is the first author on that paper? So, yeah, we can, we can.
Ben might show you this on on the lab tools.
So the next thing that you might want to, or you do want to do with ultrafast laser pulses is frequency conversion.
So you tend not. But you don't find any ultrafast laser cavities that produce short pulses at in the kind of visible range.
So all the lasers that we get due to absorption and the dispersion all produce outputs of the range of kind of in the near infrared.
So maybe 690 could be the shortest wavelength that you could generate with a tie sapphire.
Most of them operate between 700 and say one micron in terms of the optimum blocking characteristics.
So to get shorter wavelengths, say, into the visible, the only way you can do it is through frequency conversion.
So you take your your tie sapphire laser or your or your, um, picosecond laser,
and you use some of these optical processes that we've already looked at.
Second harmonic generation is a very common one.
So you have a device which does harmonic generation, some some imaging third harmonic generation to get half the wavelength.
Again. And this is where this quasi phase matching comes in.
So we're using parallel beams going through these crystals.
And you have a device where you have this periodically pulled material that gives you this kind of alternating stack of material.
And then we can use temperature controlling to optimize phase matching.
And then you get an efficient second harmonic signal coming out.
So this allows you to convert your near infrared light from your ultrafast laser into visible light.
Um, that you can use for other things.
If we want to do the coherent Roman experiment that we were talking about, we need two wavelengths to excite the sample.
And for this one, we. So just like we use the second harmonic generation to convert our wavelengths.
This time we use difference frequency generation device called an optical permit parametric oscillator.
And essentially it's just difference frequency generation. So we've looked at DFG when we were doing the theory of nonlinear optics.
We take our pump frame, we stick it into a very similar device to the one we just looked at for H.
But this time it's placed in a cavity. You have your crystal, you send it your pump, it goes through the crystal.
And then we have a cavity that goes round. So as we go through this crystal, you get a red photon and a green photon produced.
And you sum in your difference frequency generation.
The green photon goes round this cavity where the pulse light path length is matched to the optical
path length associated with the correct rate to the time between pulses times the speed of light.
So the pulse that was generated comes back through the crystal at exactly the same time that the next pump photon comes through.
And that's what makes it an oscillator. So we've got a cavity.
And we can produce strong a strong signal to synchronized wavelengths that we consume from a single input wavelength.
And that's how we generate the wavelengths during coherent Raman using different frequency generation.
So these are the two that we use for pumping Stokes generated from a single photon.
Naturally, the way this is achieved, if you remember the ultra, the ultra fast lasers tend to work only tend to work in near infrared.
So we actually combine this second harmonic generation with difference frequency generation in order to generate the signal noise enough.
So we start with a single one micron laser beam, which generates our green photons.
And those green photons are then sent into an IPO where we get a different frequency generation,
and it's the temperature controlling of the crystal that allows us to tune the wavelengths of the signal like a beam.
Yeah. And you'll get to see this in the lab demos next week.
We can look at an IPO. Um, and it's very simple calculation.
It's just converting a difference frequency equation between, um, wavelengths.
So it's just one over the wavelength.
If you ever asked to calculate the signal like the wavelengths it's just one over the pump wavelength is equal to one over the super plus one.
I feel like it's a really simple calculation to do. Hey.
So. That's it for a kind of laser generate like how we generate the light used for nonlinear imaging.
So you can explain the excitation requirements for different nonlinear optical processes.
So you can discuss the ideal pulse characteristics for say, second harmonic generation versus coherent Raman.
And you know, the differences because you don't want a pulse where the bandwidth exceeds the ramen line width.
Otherwise you lose your spectral resolution. You can explain how lasers work.
You can explain how mode locking works for both picosecond and femtosecond regimes.
There's no calculations to do for the mobile.
Okay, so you might be asked to like draw graphs of like the loss versus the gain showing where the pulses are for example.
We'll talk about the difference between the semi the actual absorber versus cleansing and how that controls the pulse width.
And you can now look at the that. You can now explain how the frequency conversion works for generating these synchronized pulses for
things like hearing from and and calculate wavelengths on the signal light for different countries.
Okay. So that's it for the laser generation.
So our next lecture would be on applications for.
Yes. So we'll start this on top of it.
We'll do this one on Monday. So we're going to go through a few different applications of things that you can do with nonlinear optical imaging.
And it's kind of some of it is just nice stuff that you can just sit there and take it and enjoy.
But there will be stuff that we pertinent to the exams,
because we're going to be looking at how things like phase matching affect the contrast and how we can use that to our, um, advantage.
And the reason I'm putting this up is because we're going to do, um, lab tours of all the different things that we've discussed in week 11.
So I put Monday, if we can happen, we can have this last week in terms.
Yes. Okay. Um, so it needs to be Monday, either be the Monday slot or maybe the Tuesday slot, but I'll confirm that by email or next week.
Um, so you'll get to see relevant devices, infrared imaging devices, second harmonic generation microscopy okay.
Roman microscopy. That's a picture back here on the microscope.
Um, and you'll also get to see how Napo works. So we'll, we'll meet in the room and then you leave all your bags and stuff in here and,
um, it's got the commentary on stuff, so I'm hoping to get through the application.
We will get through the applications lecture on Monday.
Um, and then we'll get Tuesday off because we won't have any more material to cover.
Um, and then we'll meet again for, uh, lab demos the following Monday.
So this gives you more time to focus on your kind of your videos, and I'll be free on the Tuesday timeslot.
If you want to talk to me about your videos or anything, but I'm pretty much met with all of the groups so far.
Who hasn't come to some of your meeting today on time and some tomorrow.
And then you guys got yours. But. Brilliant. How the heck is anyone done there?
Yeah. You're working towards it.
You're looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to seeing results.
Okay, so we'll meet again on Monday for the final lecture.
Um, and then again, for the last time, I. Just feel.
Like. I can give you something specific.
Um. So, um.
So. Now I'm okay.
Thank you so much. Oh, yeah.
Um. Yeah. So I was I was. Like.
Yeah. Yeah. I'll talk to. You later.
Oh, no. Yeah. Oh, no.
No. Um. Because she continues.
Yeah. Yeah. So. Yeah.
It's okay. She's fine. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Oh, no. It's just the way one word is.
Yeah. It just might. Bring some people.
Yeah. Yes. Oh, yes.
And she goes. I don't know if I was not a phrase that you made for team.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Oh. Yeah.
Yeah. This.
One is yours. Is the most important to raise.
Your loved ones. These are the ones that are being stupid.
Like someone's gonna ruin the owners are gonna like.
He's not gonna. If he sees himself like, you know what's going on.
Why do you ask nice people? Yeah, I really I really.
Need to get him yapping about me. Yeah. You're always. He's going to be talking about three minutes of video.
Yeah. Yeah. This is a personal good that goes into the song.
Yeah. Yeah. This woman was like. Yeah. Yeah, I'm just not that chatty.
He analysing as well. Yeah. Why? Why would I read a whole people.
Why don't you sit around and hire people in this nation?
You just. Prince Charles, you need to summarize this, please.
That's why it was invented so bad. Chatbot said you did this.
Lovers. I found the pay for doing it. Like.
Yeah, reading was voted for, like, office was a waste of time.
Um, we can have a look at the questions, like six months ago.
No no no no no no. I feel like I we discussed we are not sending even half the research you need to know.
No, not because we. Yeah. Because there's other ones out there about money. So what makes this different this year?
Well, when I was first time on the panel, we put the slot for an hour.
Then how do we told him? It doesn't matter how long. How do you know?
Because we know that I think like or not, even if we don't have them because they are different and rely on the fact,
the reason why they solve the questions is like it's more like quite know how quite you said, well, what makes it better?
That's what we're trying to sell. We're trying to sell. Yeah. And informed about non-linear optics otherwise wise.
No, we're not trying to sell anything else. Question is a selfish ambition.
Why is it a team or solo? Yeah.
No, that's. Yeah, that's that's, uh, quite a change from your previous research.
Yeah. That's the most. Okay, that was out of the question.
Room for growth in an adult world. It's about your research.
It's just that you don't know us. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we get it.
We're going to learn to exercise. You ask any other questions? I think that's terrific.
I don't think you know. Maybe because that's what we might otherwise think about.
Otherwise, you might as well just say powered by harissa. Yeah. I'm going to just say that for us.
Exactly. That's all we will do now. We've just got half an hour to get to bed.
I think we need to think. What do we want to know? Yeah, we talked like more lead in class.
I think that's all in. If we have efficiencies of value that is already being talked about this for comfortably two hours.
Yeah, yeah I know. Yeah. We don't want to hours that we want.
Yeah we want out. If we want to.
We're not sure how to answer that. We have too much in court.
Yeah, I think we have too little. I think asking that many questions massively increases our net.
You know very much. Yeah, I agree, that's two questions.
You do need to do 15 questions each. Take two minutes to answer.
That's half an hour, right. I'm like, really neat.
Where are you actually going to use like 1 or 2 of the questions for answers.
Like I said, you want to know where you want to go. Is that the angle we're starting off with?
Like what he's or he. Yeah. We should might we should think from how he's using like medicine like medicine and diagnostic has.
Yeah I know what he's really use it for. I was trying to.
See. Okay.
Be like, he's on the pizza. Uh, you know, for me, uh, you know, both of us.
Oh, yeah. Literally 26 years ChatGPT.
Can you make recipes? Mr. Oh, this guy's going to [INAUDIBLE] hate us.
Oh, here. Here are your 30 questions. There was a PDF on that.
He said you have to subscribe to read.
What's been your biggest challenge? Should we do the best you can do?
The in the disease wants us to stop from going forward, which is like, um.
Like, what do you currently do over the diseases? What's your biggest challenge?
Can you do that? Because that's what you expect, which means you can't do a more nice two minutes and ever walk away.
Well, if you've got disease. What what is your established reception?
We can look at ourselves as an open house. We need to ask about questions because it was like we want.
We wanted to talk about his work in medicine and diagnostics, then tell us how he's using to do the math.
The mummy stuff. Yeah, but what I'm saying is you should go in and tell me what you've done.
I'm not sure that we've done no research so we know nothing, which is kind of like.
Yeah, but these are still without questions and like. Or we can. Yeah.
I'm just saying. No, I don't think that's right. I think the disease questions are right because this is probably other stuff.
Not really like basic. Yeah. And no matter how much content we have, we want him.
We want it to be hidden talents as well in the video. Oh.
Um. Enforcement.
Uh. I read the question.
I was stupid. It's just like sales don't work.
What do you do with seasonal stuff? Well, remember, even the movie ones, we definitely need.
Because there's no there's no publication. Okay. So we can say about, um.
Right. Oh, yeah. The movie was like, what do you want to find out about?
We don't actually go any research on that. So we can ask, like, what do you mean?
I see what you aim to find out from the. Why is it important to you to not say to them?
Go on. How is it using analysis considering the weakness of this question?
Well, he's using that. But of course, of course, in that situation spectroscopy is a non-linear process.
It would be that I was using, you know, what is it?
This, this part, this, this. Then I asked him what the real world application of his research is.
Yes, yes. Nothing Auntie has until next week is a week to put the interview into the video.
We can make it stop on the.