But maybe everyone's go is the last one I'm looking for.
Maybe. You don't even need to be alone.
It's the laptop. Okay, so this is the last actual full lecture, and then it's the laptop.
Yeah. How's it going, Charlie?
How's that video going? I believe with you.
Really? This week you said that the questions.
Should be fairly smooth. Hmm.
Oh, so that's what you call this one? Yeah.
You don't have one tomorrow. There's no lecture tomorrow. And then we've got lab tools next Tuesday and next week.
Next Monday. Good thing you remind me all. The time.
No. This was. Actually.
Good. How are you?
And how was your interview with Hervé? Oh, it's very interesting.
Yeah, I think it's got some good, useful stuff.
Yeah. So it sounds good. Oh, yeah. But I didn't think work went into this with this.
Um. Oh, actually, I'm the husband. Okay.
It was the sound of. Just good morning to you. I think so, too.
Yeah, but I think it's just as a backup in case. Yeah, it's maybe less.
Important? Yeah. But, yeah, it was really quite.
Unusual to meet you.
Did you find anyone? What are you talking about? I'm. So.
Sorry. I guess you should get used to it.
Yeah. Um, some things at work don't like to say I'm sorry.
Yeah. He's going to insist.
You're ready. Yeah. It was really helpful.
Yeah. Yeah. Um.
I did that for you. Yeah. Thank you so much.
Yeah. We've got quite a package. Oh.
So, what do you like to say? Should we get cracking? This is the last lecture.
So this is where, um, hopefully it all comes together.
So there's nothing particularly kind of challenging of owners to do.
So there's no new theories. It's just about seeing how it comes together.
Um, so I think if I was going to put a red box around something, I'd definitely say that one.
So, you know, the whole point of kind of this lecture today is to be able for you to think about knowing the stand,
how nonlinear optical microscopy overcomes the problems that we've got with normal imaging.
So what what do you know about two thirds of the questions?
How does it overcome the limitations? Of conventional fluorescence in context of conflict detection.
Anyone you know where the beads coming from?
Yep. So no pinhole, no confocal detection.
We know that the signal is only generated at the focus, and that allows us to go much, much deeper into tissue.
So what are the two? Two reasons or maybe three points when we go deeper into tissue.
We can tell the pinhole because the confocal the nonlinear confinement of the signal.
So in the two photon and three photon fluorescent diagrams, how does the wavelength of excitation compare to the linear version?
Don't go. Short-tum. That's two times as long.
Well, three times longer for three photon excitation. And what does that mean for the scattering?
Remember why the sky is blue, so the incident light itself undergoes a fall.
A scattering that enables this enables us to go deeper.
The fluorescent signal that comes out is the same kind of as if we hit it with the blue laser, but we don't care if it's scattered.
Yes. So this is the real reason why we keep getting up.
What was the problem with using fluorescence? Thank you.
Yeah. So. And why is it good for proteins and not so good for small molecules like drugs and fatty acids?
Relative size of the. Yeah. So sticking.
A fluorescent tag onto something big, like a protein, is like sticking a one kilogram tag on an elephant.
Sticking that same fluorescent label on a fatty acid or drug molecule is equivalent to putting a Ford Transit van on an elephant,
so the elephant isn't going to behave as quick as we'd expect.
So we then went on to look at second harmonic generation and what type of structures exhibit 16.
Non-Central symmetric molecules that have this particular feature, and the two common ones in biological material are mice.
And where do we find mice in? Muscles and collagen, which we find in cartilage.
So those are kind of two labels or two molecules that we can target for free with SARS G.
And then we went on to cause microscopy coherent anti Stokes Raman scattering.
What did we say was the advantage of cause. You guys forgotten this already?
Can anyone give us a recap? Say it's a non-linear version of Robin, and we use full wave mixing.
And by using four wave mixing, we tune to a bromine resonance that matches this bronze key diagram for wide mixing.
Yeah. So again we don't need a pinhole.
We send our two laser pulses into the sample.
We know the signal gets generated from the focus where the intensity is high enough to generate the nonlinear signal processes.
And we don't need to use the detector. What we didn't look at is that it's also interesting to detect the signal in cause in the backwards direction.
So we've looked at kind of forwards versus backwards propagating cars.
So far we've only looked at it in the forwards direction. And if we go in the forwards direction.
We tune the difference between a pump and Stokes beams.
And for example, if we want to image lipids, we can tune them to the vibrations direction from those.
This is incredible contrast from lipids.
We can scan across the Roman band of lipids, and we can map out different lipids and see lipid droplets in cells.
Why lipids good ones to image because.
Why would you go to the effort of imaging the difference with this quite tricky specialized nonlinear imaging method?
Thinking back to elephants in transit vans. So lipids are hard to like.
Yeah. So this is a really big application of nonlinear Roman because they're intrinsically hard to tag with fluorescent labels.
So if you want to image proteins you might as well just use a fluorescent label because they're not going to get perturbed lipids or something.
In biology that's essentially. For many, many decades been invisible to biological microscopy because it's hard to label them.
So we've got lipids and we've talked about brains before.
We've looked at lipids appear in brain tissue where we find lipids in brain tissue.
Yeah. In the myelin sheets, the insulate neurons. Lipids are kind of the food source for cells.
So people like to understand how lipid droplets grow and develop in cells to understand how cancer metabolizes for example.
So all these things are potentially very difficult to do with fluorescent microscopy.
So this is one kind of niche application that might have a problem and can really kind of provide information that you can't get with fluorescent.
So we've gone into phase matching and you probably looked at the phase matching and thought, oh God,
this is like this really kind of weird, like niche to the thing that we're looking at and kind of phase matching.
But actually it has practical applications in care from like microscopy.
So if we compare the signal generation in the forwards versus the backwards direction.
So we're used to this equation that tells us the phase match or the phase mismatch and how it has
to be smaller than pi over L because we get this partial canceling out with the confetti shift.
If we detect in the backwards direction, our K3 suddenly becomes negative because it's going back in the other way, suddenly making delta k big again.
And then we get the same problem that we have with third harmonic generation, when we only get that signal produced from very small objects.
Yeah, you remember that.
And so that means you only get backwards propagating signal either from interfaces or very tiny scatters which are smaller than pi.
Over out. Yeah. You're just kind of ringing bells.
People are looking to get confused. So it turns out this is a really good way of suppressing the signal completely from bulk material.
So one thing that we've been working on here a lot in my group is imaging nanoparticles in biological tissues.
And if we take an image of some cancer cells that contain nanoparticles in the forward signal,
you can see the signals dominated by the contrast from the cells.
So the phase matching from the bulk objects adds up coherent in the false direction.
And we get a lovely strong signal if we compare that to the backwards direction.
Well, these little tiny dots,
a sub wavelength particles where we were able to get the backwards propagating signal because of the phase matching problem.
And now that gets us this kind of free contrast of the nanoscale materials.
And then we can overlap that on the cancer cells. And then show that the cancer cells have gobbled up these particles.
Yeah. So that's a kind of an example of where you can use. Some rather elegant physics.
To do something practically useful in biological modules would be using this
phase matching concept that I was telling you about a couple of lectures ago.
So it does have practical implications. It's a real thing. Yeah.
So this has been used a lot in nanoparticle drug delivery is they don't come across nanoparticle delivery before only a few people nodding.
So it turns out that 95% of new drugs developed by the pharmaceutical industry are just no good.
So they work in a test tube. They know it might cure the disease they're trying to treat, but it could be toxic.
Or the drug molecules could get consumed by the body before they've reached the site of interest.
So it turns out that this work has been pioneered by this lady.
It's uma, you checkpoint I've been working with for a long time, and she's now actually a dame, so she's been knighted.
Um, and she's discovered that if you encapsulate drugs into nanoparticles of itself.
So some wavelength size particles, you can protect the drug from the body before it reaches the site of interest.
You can make something that was insoluble, suddenly becomes soluble because it's encapsulated into particles.
And you can control the release of the substance.
So you can deliver it to cells, and then let it slowly reach out into cells and work as a period of time.
So we've done lots of work applying this phase matching trick.
So in green we've got have the drug delivery particles named red.
We've got the biological cells structures of the gut. So you can see that large kind of clusters of these not nano materials sticking to the gut wall.
Um, and you can then see smaller particles disappearing inside cells.
So this has been used to support the development, development of quite a few drug materials,
because we can demonstrate the mode of action by demonstrating the particles do get taken up into cells within the body, which is very important.
We're applying this kind of. Hard core phase matching idea we can demonstrate.
This works really, but practically in a microscope.
Um, and here's another example where we were working with particles that target the liver.
Um, anyone? Guess what? This is in blue. So that's second harmonic generation from collision.
So we've got red cells. We're imaging the cells in green.
We've got the EPI detected signal which gives us that kind of sub wavelength particle size filter.
And then in blue you can see the collagen which we just get for free when we're
doing cars because we just detect at twice omega 1 or 2 and it just comes out free.
So we can do this in 3D.
Many, many cell lines deep within the kidney tissue, confirming the uptake of particles and the encapsulation of particles in cells.
What it turned out to have a different kind of application. Um, have you heard of microplastics?
So bad for the environment.
And until quite a while ago, these things were being put into kind of shampoos and face washes and all sorts of cosmetic stuff.
And this lady who's just down the hill in Bioscience just came to me, said, I'm seeing that you're using nanoparticle drug delivery imaging.
Could you do with microplastics? So we kind of gave it a go.
It turned out we could see the accumulation of it. And at the time I thought this was just like a bit of a sort of weird thing to be exploring.
Um, and then it turned out that she, we, we showed that these particles do get taken up into marine organisms,
and we can see nanomaterials and micro materials getting accumulated into kind of this very shrimp,
some kind of marine organism, and microplastics inside of the marine organisms.
And then she took the results that we did in our lab and presented them at the Houses of Parliament.
Um, and then it turned out the images actually got the plastics banned.
So she got what? She got em. That was awesome. It's not knighted or is it an OBE?
So she's like a botanist making up an order. Anyway, she she got to go see the Queen.
Um, in recognition of the work that we did.
Um, so that's another example of something this kind of phase matching that you might've thought was a bit of a kind of weird, obscure technique,
how it can be applied robustly into kind of real life 3D biological organisms to
detect the presence of sub wavelength particles in in actual biological tissues.
Who's interviewing Nick Stone? Yeah. This one.
Reprinted here, next and next. A professor in our department.
And he's been working in pathology to try to detect cancer with Rahman for a long, long time.
So if you all remember, right at the start of the lecture course, I kind of introduced this idea of using absorption and color to stage materials.
Do you remember about the hematocrit enhancing staining? Yeah.
So the current gold standard in pathology particularly of this is bowel cancer.
Um, and so this is you can you know, endoscope is so this is a rather unpleasant procedure,
um, where it's, it's not a large device, but it's probably larger than you want it.
Um, they, they poke that into people's mouths to scan and, um,
so pathology look in regions of tissue where they think the bowel cancer might be growing.
Um, it's really unpleasant for many reasons.
I think the most unpleasant reason is that the patient has to take very strong laxatives for about two days before they get this done.
So they're completely clear and you can see everything. Um, and it's obviously unpleasant from, for obvious reasons.
Um, but it's also quite unpleasant because it's a very stressful procedure for the patient.
So the surgeon will go in and look for regions visually that look a bit old, or different red regions or raised regions, things that are polyps.
Some of these polyps are just kind of harmless, non-cancerous growths, and other ones could be cancerous growths.
So the the surgeon then sends out this little grabber and then kind of snips off a piece of tissue and then brings it back.
And they might take a few of these samples, and they just look like tiny chunks of meat that they send off to get processed.
And the reason it's quite stressful for the patient, apart from the physical reasons,
is that they have to wait quite a long time for the results to come back, and quite often the results that come back are inconclusive.
So if you remember how these things are processed, so you start off with the tissue.
You have to set it in wax.
You take sections, you slice it, you dip it into stains and dyes, and then you finally end up with these very nice looking images.
But the cells and tissue stained with these nice pink and purple contrast.
And then the pathologist will look at it and make a decision and say that's cancerous, all that's healthy.
And then in many cases the pathologist will look at it and go, well, it's inconclusive.
We need to do it again. So you have to send a letter to the patient to say yes or do it all again, we're not sure.
So and that's very stressful because they just want to know what they've got cancer or not.
So we're looking all the time to see if we can come up with better ways of doing this.
So. We could, in principle just completely replace pathology histopathology with rolling and nonlinear imaging.
But there's a real reason that you wouldn't want to, Hervé, talk about this the other time.
So you guys interviews somebody working in this particular field.
So in principle you could completely get rid of HIV.
Remove it from hospital practices altogether. We could do it all with label free nonlinear optical imaging.
But the real power of this technique and, uh.
Daniel. That was the real power of this technique,
and the reason that I probably never got to move away from any is that every time somebody gets a biopsy taken.
They have one of these slides made. And the hospitals don't just chuck them away, they keep them and then put them into these.
John,
there are companies that basically have just shelves and shelves and shelves full of these things in case they ever want to go back and look at them.
And although the technique and the images themselves are very old,
it's absolutely fantastic source of information because you can think of these stores as a bit like a time machine.
So if you go back and put with things like modern machine learning, you can now analyze these slides.
And the really powerful thing is that some of these slides might be 20, 30, 40 years old.
And you've also got the patient records associated with them. So, you know, after the slide was taken, you know what?
They had cancer not you know, how aggressive it was, you know, treatment they responded to.
So it enables, um, kind of machine learning computer scientists to come up with prognostic models that can recognize
early features in the sample and then link them to how the likely outcome of that patient,
how best to treat them and whether that cancer is aggressive or not.
So for this reason, a lot of people working in kind of nonlinear.
From an imaging we're creating. Label free images using cars and SARS microscopy.
And instead of just using these images in ten pathologists or training pathologists to make an interpretation from those images,
we're actually now using AI to convert the SRS image into something that looks identical to HD.
And the reason we do that is because you can then train neural networks that have seen millions of HD images from these historical stores,
so that you can then put your your kind of virtual HD image through these classifiers and then get the same diagnostic help.
So the idea is that you wouldn't need to take the biopsy one day.
We could do this in an optical fiber that the surgeon could just image much larger areas of tissue as well,
because when you're putting different chunks of tissue out of the patient,
a lot of the kind of uncertainty in this method is relying on the fact, not the quality of the HD or your your final imaging diagnosis.
It's really how good is that? Is the guide surgeon at detecting the daunting looking regions within the tissue and then pulling them out.
And that's because obviously if you want it to catch it,
you will have to move the whole intestine and image the whole thing that the patient needs their intestine.
So this is why it relies on this kind of picking certain points within the patient.
And that's one of the biggest kind of. Saying points of not failure, but inaccuracies.
You're relying on picking the right bits of tissue in the first place.
So if we could do this with an optical fiber and do it non-invasively, creating images that look like this in situ,
that we could then run through a machine learning classifier to predict the outcome of the patient.
That would be the kind of way of the future. Yeah. That's gonna give you some examples of one of the things we're doing.
The final. I think this is the final application. So we talked about.
Elephants and GPS tags and transit vans and drug molecules.
One of the things that we wanted to image and these are even smaller than liquids,
so typical kind of drug molecules are of the order of like a third of the size of a liquid.
So could be very small, particularly if you want to look at compounds that are designed to go through the skin.
So drug to drug delivery because the skin such a good barrier at preventing the uptake of things you don't want going into your body,
as soon as you want to get like a cream that delivers a drug across the skin, it's very challenging.
So you have to pick low molecular weight compounds to stand any chance of going through this area.
And really we want to be able to image them to understand the transport mechanisms,
understand how they diffuse so that they can design formulations that work better for go into the skin much better.
People have tried using fluorescently labeled versions of the drug in the past,
but it doesn't give a very good result because you're not seeing how the drug behaves.
You're seeing how the drug with the Ford Transit van sat on top of it behaves.
So this is an example of where label free images is really important.
So using I think this stimulated Raman very similar to cars were able to image skin.
So this is this was pigskin. And we can do these kind of slices at different depths.
So we were doing a set of a scanning sequential debt scanning through the skin to acquire these images.
And then we can put it together, put it together to make a kind of 3D depth profile or depth image as we go through the skin.
And then we can artificially take an x, z plane through our stack of images,
and you can see that it matches a kind of structure of skin that we'd expect from this technology.
There's a real challenge with imaging these low molecular weight drugs.
In the. Typically, the chemical structure of the drug that you want to image doesn't have anything unique in terms of its Roman signature.
It's usually called as in hydrogens. It's biologically active, but it doesn't have any kind of unique Roman features that you could use to detect it.
And because it's so small, you can't put a fluorescent tag.
So one of the tricks that you can do is to take isotopes of hydrogen and take
a version of that molecule where instead of having carbon hydrogen bonds,
you've got. A carbon deuterium plant.
So what happens if you remember how we calculate the vibrational frequency?
Oh, yeah. This technique works for oil as well. So we have this equation that tells us the resonant frequency of a pair of atoms bound together.
If we know the bond strength and their mass.
If you take hydrogen and you replace it with deuterium and tritium, you're changing the new effective mass here.
Chemically, it still behaves exactly the same. You've made a tiny perturbation to its molecular weight,
but it now gives us something where we can take the stretching peak, and we can shift it by increasing the mass.
You can see increasing means that goes on the bottom, so that downshifts or red shifts the vibrational resonance.
We can shift it away from any of the bonds in that sample.
So we now put our peak into something called. People refer to it as desired region.
So it gives you this kind of unique tag. You can tag the molecules, but you're tagging it with something minimally small.
So I guess the equivalent to the kind of elephant. On the the transit van.
Transport on the other from this tag would be you're kind of trying to make a really, really tiny GPS tag that you can put on a mouse or something.
Yeah. So you can track much, much smaller animals. So it's not a chemical perturbation, but it does change the vibrational frequency of.
CHP. So here's an example of where we were imaging.
Does anyone come across Ketoprofen before? It's very similar to ibuprofen.
Um, and it's one of those things that as you get older, you probably start using it.
Uh, you've got that backward knee and you start rubbing it on your skin.
And it's quite a lot of people don't actually believe that these things work based on
the size of the molecule and the concentration that you get across the skin barrier.
Um, and it is actually quite a sort of long stretch to think that you could deliver enough
concentration of this through the skin all the way deep into your muscles in your back.
And it's probably just the fact that you have to sit there rubbing it for a certain amount of time.
That actually makes it work. So we did this experiment where we took.
So we use the CHP to image the skin lipids. Ketoprofen remarkably does have a unique Roman peak that we could image.
And that's that's set out here for this green peak here.
But we also also wanted to image the, um, propylene glycol, which is the kind of carrier that you dissolve the stuff in.
So the tripling glycol was due to rated.
So we can in three different channels image the skin the drug and the solvent.
The drug was dissolved in. And we could take it take images as a function of time and orange.
We've got skin lipids in blue. We've got the uh prevalent glycol and in purple we've got the ketoprofen.
And you do see some depth penetration. But what we discovered was that when you image the surface of the skin,
you get huge crystals of the propylene glycol forming at the surface of the skin.
So we can measure the diffusion of the profile in glycol and the diffusion of the key to paraffin as a function of depth into the skin and time.
And but what this data shows is happening is that the propylene glycol is flowing through the skin much quicker than the ketoprofen,
and it drops out of solution and you get it crystallized on the surface. So it's a real problem to get the drug delivered through the skin.
And I think the kind of take home message to the pharmaceutical companies for this was that you probably want to pick a
different solvent and match the diffusion time of the solvent to the drug in order to optimize how fast it gets to on time.
You can go through the skin at the same time so the ketoprofen doesn't get left on the surface and just crystallize.
Okay. So that's kind of just a kind of brief kind of overview.
Some of the things that you can do with nonlinear optical microscopy.
And I picked like a range of things that kind of demonstrate the different advantages of the different methods.
Um. And kind of showing you that that phase matching derivation that we did was actually worthwhile.
And it does get used for nonlinear optical imaging. I strongly suggest really having a good think about.
How confocal microscopy gives you 3D imaging at tap. What?
Why? It's limited in this hole. Scattering the pinhole.
Scattered photons getting blocked by the pinhole. How nonlinear microscopy overcomes that because it just doesn't need a pinhole.
And then you get this kind of three fold advantage.
No pinhole long wavelengths. And the light emitted from the focus can be scattered.
And we don't care if it's getting because we just detect it on a large detector.
So that's the end of the kind of of the lecture. So there's no tomorrow.
But next Monday I've arranged um, some tools of uh, imaging and spectroscopy laboratory.
So if we're going to have a four sessions or four different um, stations that will visit, um,
we're going to look at Roman and infrared spectroscopy, which is going to show you what it's been doing with whole harmonic generation microscopy.
So this whole kind of we it's concept of the lack of center symmetry and how it comes from collagen and myosin.
Again, this is kind of it's not this kind of weird obscure technique.
It is being used in the real world is using it to image kind of arthritis and how people's joints,
um, how the collagen fibers get disrupted in different diseases.
Mice. And again, it's another really important molecule that occurs in muscles.
People are using it to understand things like muscular dystrophy and things.
Um, and then you're going to get to see inside our imaging facility that does Roman scattering.
So this is could run as an external facility that was funded by the FCC suggestion.
And we showed you around that. And then I'll show you inside an optical parametric oscillator just of show you
what when we were talking about how laser beam wavelength conversions work. So don't forget to look on early for the revision material.
So I've noticed people haven't been so keen on the end of section quizzes,
so I'll put in that for a reason, because they will test the knowledge that you'll need for the exam.
There are four problem sheets for you to practice.
You can get the solutions to those on. And the past exam papers are all on edge as well along with the solutions to those past papers.
So practice the past papers. Make sure you go through them.
Um, obviously you get a new exam paper every year, so those questions aren't going to come up,
but they're very representative of the type of questions that you're likely to be asked.
Um, and as promised, there's a revision session in May.
Um, just before I put, you know, in the exam is 18th, 18th of May.
And then. When would you like a revision session?
How close? Before the exam? We follow the example.
So maybe I'll try and look at your exam timetables and see when you've got the other ones.
And then if we've got like you've got this one, I'll put it in for the exam.
Yeah. And don't forget your assessment.
So the deadline is Friday of Week 11.
And have you all checked for the assessment appointment early to check it's there.
Yeah. And you just get to see one submission point. It's all I get to see.
Like I think the way it works is when they should already know the group.
Yeah. Yeah. So when the first person uploads it comes up everyone else because I get to see six groups.
I take it you don't see groups 1 to 6, you just see no. Oh, okay.
So so you don't. So somebody in your group submits it and everyone gets the receipt.
Yeah. So Allie knows who's a moderate.
Um, but I just suddenly thought I'd never see neuroscience as a submission point.
You get to see. So each and everyone in each group just got one place to submit it.
So, yeah, I think you only need to submit it once everyone gets that.
And then the marks automatically get allocated to the groups.
How are the videos going? The programs.
I'm looking forward to seeing them. So the outcome from last year was just really, really good.
So I'm hopeful that it's going to be another good year. Okay.
So see you all next. Oh, and finally I forgot this one.
So will be offering. I always offer and first projects on these topics.
And also if you're in the PSC lab, some some of the PSC students have done, um,
experiments with projects related to nonlinear optics, which which we've fitted in um and lab for students.
We had a conference here in Exeter. Three years ago.
And these guys my interest group and they they make that post one that goes up in the cards when they actually got to take it to a real conference.
Um, and some of you know, this guy Hervey, who came in, gave an invited talk here.
Um, so we're actually running a conference in Exeter again this year, and my new Memphis group giving a presentation at that one.
So. So I think let's think about Memphis project.
Most of you took a seat on your. But yeah, so we all said we advertising projects.
Everyone has got to have fun. So brilliant. So see you next Monday for the lab tools.
Um, I look forward to seeing your video. So I'll be available to upload the lecture.
On which? So.
Yeah, yeah. So, uh, so are you just under.
Two minutes. Which, you know, I believe.
So it has to be for several. Hours.
So you can share some stuff. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. This is a job for you to understand how to.
Stay tuned. So, um. So. So.
So so so so so I think you probably should.
Yeah. So he's about half way.
Yeah, he's he's got schedule. I'm telling you, I can make it better.
So I should say.
Yeah. And it is a challenge because most. People this once they get the opportunity interactive interact which is an equal amount of skin coming in.
And I'm asking you just ask a few questions.
I'll see you later which I'll take. You know them, see what else can.
I shoot something? Yeah.
That's. Awesome animation.
So what you told us, you think, like, sometimes it's just like.
I just thought I was. Check. Which room did you both for us today?
Leonard sent you the link. It was not able to open the attachment.
Oh, there's no attachment. It's just. Hey, I forwarded the, um, click on the room bookings.
Yeah, yeah, it's just that email and in there should be the.
Not really I because also I can see like it's close to attachments and whatever.
But I'll keep going. Yeah. Um yeah I just moved in as much as the next um, do you want to try and meet with Ricky?
And then when are you doing the actual interview? Tomorrow.
Access. Okay. Did you did you do test venues?
Yeah, I did test run point. Good time forums. Yes.
Yes. Oh, yeah. I know, I.