If you go. Yeah. And I sent you here if you want to have a statement, like if you just click on the screen and we'll see because I'm not.
Having a set in front of a computer is another so pretty cool thing to do.
And I like using the mouse just to. See what.
We can see. So let me show.
You something. Did you see one of the ones that I was almost like doing that thing where you kind of do a closeup of the person.
You can mouse things on the keyboard, for example, of the screen.
And then I could just do one thing. Yeah, yeah.
I imagine it. It's so. And you just get as much as you can.
Yeah. Get very quickly in this place. Yeah.
You. See, the numbers are dwindling as we get closer to the end of the natural course.
We're nearly there. There's only a few more lectures to go, but this is the critical one which was to come together.
There's nothing quite challenging. It's just been resolved. You know.
It's. Not.
Quite the choice of the MSC project. How are you going to use it?
Code? Oh, you have to go with it as well.
Yeah. Oh, no. I really like coincidence.
It's the same. Okay.
So I'm going to start with a recap. So as I was just to say I know we covered already kind of fundamental concepts of nonlinear optics.
And eventually this is where the whole lot starts to come together.
And you can start to see how the little pieces that we've covered together to show you something that's really quite cool.
So what's a red box mean? Is it make sure you remember.
Yeah. So we should be now very comfortable, um, with the idea of the limitations of conventional microscopy.
Now it's a trade off between resolution and scattering. So how does optical resolution scale waves.
Mental law wavelengths. So we want to use.
The diffraction limits. Yeah. So we've covered this.
This is like one of the fundamental things about it.
When you were looking at like space telescopes then a growth rate in terms of kind of optical imaging
down high numerical aperture lens that we've converted from angular resolution to distance resolution.
Lens scattering, on the other hand, scales with wavelength with one over wavelength to the power of both.
So you can see just going a little bit shorter wavelengths to get a bit more resolution is going to give you a big increase in scattering.
So you double the double the wavelength. How do you reduce the fact that you reduce the amount of scattering 1660.
Yeah two purple. So those two things are at odds with each other.
And even if you did have the ability to kind of not not worry about scattering the polarization mechanism,
how does that how's that linked to the wavelength.
If we weren't bothered about losing resolution, and we just wanted to go to longer wavelengths to reduce scattering,
why does the polarization mechanism not allow us to do that thing that gives us the contrast?
To that. It's the contrast mechanism, the energy transition that you're looking at that governs the wavelength that you need.
Remembers a lot of these these things are quantized. So if it's optical absorption of photons.
You. You need to tune your excitation wavelength to give you the color contrast that you're trying to do,
whether it's infrared or whether it's electronic absorption of human, for example, that's fundamentally linked to the excitation wavelength.
Fluorescence requires labels, so it's not a limitation.
What's not? Why is it not always good to label stuff?
Yeah. So it's like, remember that analogy put the transit van on top of the elephant.
It's not going to behave like we are in the Serengeti.
And you perturbed the system. And you're not driving it in the way that it needs to behave.
If we want to use absorption as a contrast mechanism.
And he would talk to the nation was one example. You need different sections.
You're measuring doesn't come through. Yeah. So you need to have like a clear image on the outside of the sample.
And this is why we cut it into a thin section. Infrared intrinsically has poor spatial resolution because of infrared wavelengths.
Raman scattering in principle can overcome this because you can access the infrared transitions at any wavelengths that you like.
Remember we look at the shift. So in principle we can pick whatever wavelength we want.
What's the downside of Roman scattering. Yeah it's very rare.
It's weak. And that means we can't use it for high speed imaging.
So the confocal detection is kind of critical.
We want to get 3D high resolution imaging.
The big problem is only the photons from the focal plane that we're interested in that don't get scattered, make it back to our pinhole.
Scattering completely hammers the depth resolution as confocal.
And this is why we want to get away from confocal detection. So if we can use nonlinear excitation.
And this is another fundamental kind of point of nonlinear microscopy, because the signal scales with this,
with the second or third power of the intensity, we only generate it right at the focus where we can get these really high intensities.
And that enables us to do away with the pinhole. And this gives us several advantages.
Instantly we're using 2 or 3 times the excitation wavelength.
So the scattering itself is reduced. Like the law that we generate fix for our sins.
For example, the non-linear conversion of those long wavelengths enables us to excite the contrast mechanism,
the polarization that emits those who say green photons, those green photons, are going to get scattered.
And often we don't have because they're not going to go through a pinhole.
We just got a large lens that focuses them down gently onto a detector.
We don't care how that emitted light is scattered, it's only the excitation light that we care about.
And that doesn't get scattered because it's a 2 or 3 times the wavelength.
So scattering doesn't affect. It only affects the excitation of.
And our wavelength is longer and it doesn't.
We don't care how how the detection light is scattered. So we decoupled the excitation from the emission wavelength enabling us to go much deeper.
Then the first thing you think is, well, if you go into 2 or 3 times, the wavelength is sacrificing 2 or 3 times the spatial resolution.
This thing that I've called the nonlinear squeeze.
We looked at how we can recover a factor of root two and root three in terms of the spatial resolution,
because that Gaussian gets squeezed by the nonlinear dependence. Yeah.
We looked at parametric and non parametric processes in the microscope.
So in a red box that's something you need to remember which ones are parametric and which ones are non parametric.
The ones that are parametric. We have to think of phase matching.
So we have to look at how that affects how the light generation is coupled to the input fields.
If it's non parametric we've lost that that coherence that temporal coherence because of this vibrational relaxation process that happens.
Yeah. So the photons they're emitted don't have any coherence with the photons that generated that signal because of that time tonight.
Yeah. That's really important.
We then looked at this thing called the Fury Phase shift.
Named after Louis Cuvee, um, who discovered this high phase shift across the focus of the lens.
And this has implications, if we remember, because of this phase matching graph here.
So delta k is the phase mismatch, L is the interaction length.
And the focus the focal depth of our lens is how we control L.
So we want L to be small. And we don't want the phase match times L to get to this point.
What happens at this point Pi. Yeah.
So the signal generator goes out of phase with the excitation light.
And we don't want that to happen. So we need to keep L small.
And then we looked at second harmonic generation. We said that omega one is a factor of two different from omega two.
So we can just about cope with that. Um, actually phase shift gives us a factor of pi for each wave.
Uh, each input wave. And we said the L has to be smaller than half the wavelength.
And that's achievable. Yeah. Where it gets where the scary phase shift starts to become a problem is with third harmonic generation.
This time there's a factor of three difference between the input and the output wavelength.
So delta k is much larger already. And we've got three lots of the gooey phase shift.
So now L has to be a third of the excitation wavelength.
And that's not so easy to do. You just can't do it. Yeah.
So we only get second half of third harmonic signals.
And interfaces will get very very thin effect.
Yeah. So we get this kind of. Interface selective property of the image.
And I think we got to about this far where we said another third order process.
But this time it's not third harmonic generation.
It's something for wave mixing where this time we get two lots of omega one minus one lot of omega two.
So it's minus omega two because we're interested in the complex conjugate of omega two.
And we get this situation here. And the nice thing about this is that the two we face, it partially cancels out.
So it enables us to do a third order process without having to worry about only looking at very thin objects.
And the example that I showed you was if you come across graphene before, you know it was graphene.
Yeah, it's just one layer of like that hexagon shaped array that you get in graphite.
So single layer it gets, you get some really interesting properties of graphene.
And one of the interesting properties is that it has a flat band structure.
So you're currently doing this um looking at dispersion curves with Steve.
Yeah. And in condensed matter and you look at omega and K graphene has a flat band structure.
So you just get a straight line that continues.
And that means that basically every photon you throw at it is going to be an optical resonance with that with the transition.
And we were able to image a single layer of graphene, single layer graphite, graphene with full wave mixing.
And the phase matching isn't a problem.
We get this extremely strong signal generated, and it's because this transition from here to here is in electronic resonance.
So which is shaking electrons backwards and forwards? Uh, omega two.
And that gives us very strong signal.
But I also said and this was a kind of heads up for today, we can also arrange the arrows in this arrangement and they would still add up.
So the omega three is turning at one minus omega T.
And what did I say to look out for. What does that look like. If if two omega is an electronic transition, what might this be on a Blonsky diagram?
So this would correspond to an infrared transmission or a molecular vibration.
Yeah. So that's what we're going to look at today. So this is I kind of said this is the good stuff.
Now this is like we finally got to the kind of culmination of everything fits together so that we can look at
doing basically vibrational imaging without all the disadvantages that you get with infrared and Roman imaging.
So is the kind of bit of a mouthful coherent anti Stokes Roman scattering um which has.
Actually move cars. That's why they remember the cars movie.
Yeah. So I put this on quite a few posters because it's like cars and it's giving you vibrational spectroscopy of things.
So it's all about speed. So as we as we talked about in various times, infrared is limited by the spatial resolution and water absorption.
It doesn't work very good in biological tissues. Roman could be great, but it's a really weak effect.
So it's just not fast enough if you want to do megapixel imaging.
So a lot of the stuff that we do in our research field is trying to speed this up using nonlinear optics.
So here we've got now going to see how we can use nonlinear optics to overcome the shortcomings of infrared and Raman.
And I'm going to introduce you to this idea of coherent answer. So it's Roman scattering which is a field I've been working in for nearly 20 years.
And we're going to look at kind of the optimal laser parameters that you might need.
Ready for the next lecture on laser sources. So if we go back to this kind of motivation, why do we want to here?
Biologists have been using fluorescence to image stuff for decades and they get some lovely images.
Um, so it's always important to think, why would we not want to use this technique?
That works well? And it comes down to this idea of kind of molecular tags.
So the fluorophore itself is very small compared to a protein, but it's quite big compared to things like fatty acids and drug molecules.
So my analogy was if you took an elephant and you put a one kilo GPS tag on it,
that would be the equivalent of fluorescently labeling a fatty acid or a drug molecule.
But if we were to compare tagging the fatty acid with the label, it's like a it's full transit on the elephant.
So it's not going to make its way around the Serengeti in the way that it would without the transit van.
And we're not going to be tracking all the other elephants. Um, and we're not going to be understanding how they behave.
So I've got a demonstration. Because I couldn't get any elephants.
We've got these. Does anyone remember these hacks for toys? Has anyone come across these before?
So we've got two hacks books instead of elephants, and one of them has got a kind of big dollop of blue tack on to mimic the transit van.
SAT on the elephant. So I don't know how well this is going to work. The old man uses.
So this was this one story side effect.
So the idea is this is mimicking a kind of molecule as it diffuses through like a membrane through like an extracellular matrix.
And if we compare that to the one without the tag I see the one with the tags doing quite well.
So got stuck. So you can see that moving that kind of if we were considering kind of molecular diffusion,
the orange one that hasn't been labeled is whizzing around, but it doesn't get stuck.
And the purple one has been labeled moves much slower.
Did that work? Yeah. So that's kind of a fun demonstration.
But it's just to demonstrate that tagging molecules does perturb how they behave and how they interact.
And the other part that we have doesn't really fit with transit vans and Blue Tack.
Is that the fluorescent dye that you put on that.
Will also change the charge of the molecule. And its kind of.
So in addition to kind of mass and how the mass is going to affect how it diffuses, we've also changed the actual chemistry of that moment here.
So it's also going to behave very differently.
So that's kind of setting the most basic motivation behind doing it is much harder way obviously for us some tagging simple optical system,
the reason tags exist and we can do it that we want to do it without them because we want to understand how molecules behave when they're not tagged.
So the idea is to go to vibrational spectroscopy.
Um, so here with two, we're trying to tune in or listen to the molecular vibrations to give us a unique.
So I'm just checking optical signature.
I'm really I'm checking. Unique optical signature from the molecules.
And there's two ways we can do it. We can do it with direct infrared absorption.
Where we go from the lower energy state to the excited vibrational state that's directly shining infrared light onto the sample.
That's a very strong optical process. But the problem is everything absorbs in the infrared.
You can't use glass lenses. Water absorption becomes a huge problem.
And we lose the spatial resolution because we need to go to wavelengths much longer than a micron to hit these resonances.
Vibrational. Another vibrational spectroscopy is Roman scattering.
So this time we use an inelastic scattering of light from these molecular vibrations.
And we did the derivation to show where this comes from. We looked at this kind of perturbation in the polar ice ability as the molecules vibrate.
And we saw how that gives us the spectrum. But the problem here is the sensitivity.
So if we looked at Rahman scattering, um, we need a change in our polarized reality for this to happen.
And the real problem for imaging is that this is a relatively weak offer, very weak effect.
So if we take fluorescence microscopy as a benchmark, because that's the thing that we'd like to replace.
So this is a mouse brain section that's been stained with lots of different fluorescent tags to highlight different molecules within,
within the brain tissue. And we we've taken lots of.
I also listen images and then call them all together to give us a whole map of the mouse brain.
And each one of these tiles contains about 500, 500, 12.512 pixels.
So we've got kind of a quarter of a million pixels per tile, and then we've got several million pixels across the image.
So with for instance, microscopy based on the signal strength that we get,
we can spend about one microsecond maybe maybe less than one microsecond per pixel.
So you can see it microsecond per pixel.
We can do one of these tiles pretty much on video right. So you can go very fast scanning the tissue, generating the picture very, very quickly.
If we compare that to ramen and at the very best situation with the strongest kind of bands that you want to image,
we're talking seconds per pixel, probably one to 10s at least per pixel.
So we're looking at a factor of ten to the six slower than fluorescence.
So if you want to increase a signal we need to get a factor of 10 to 6 a million fold increase in imaging speed.
And because Ramen is linear with the excitation intensity,
if we wanted to increase the excitation intensity to deliver this ten to the six bonding speed, we'd need a million times more photons.
And obviously, if you go from kind of ten millivolt laser up to a kilowatt laser.
It isn't going to be imaging the sample. It's going to be burning a hole through it and into your lap.
Yeah. So we can't achieve the increase in speed.
Just be cranking up the size of the laser and several photons at it.
So obviously. This is where the optics comes in, and it's where this technique come.
Cause is extremely useful because it gives us this increase in speed.
So we looked at these third order interactions.
I remember saying if you if you factor in all the positive and negative frequencies, there are 44 different components in the third order response.
But the only one that you need to remember is this one and this one.
So the one highlighted in blue, in the red dotted circle is the four wave mixing interaction that we've just looked at.
And it goes back to this idea here where we've got our whole wave mixing.
Two. Lots of omega one minus one. Lots of omega two.
Yeah. And if it's arranged in this way, this transition with resonance with is an electronic transition.
So we're shaking electrons and we get a particularly strong response if we have an electronic residence.
But even if you don't have an electronic residence you can still shake the electrons at that frequency.
And then if we don't hold the kind of get the diagram into this fashion, which then adds up to exactly the same difference between omega one,
two, and three, we can make this guy here resonant with a vibrational transition that allows us to increase the signal.
So this technique was invented until first discovered by this guy called Andresen.
She's the head of chemistry now in Constance University.
But at the time he was working in America, um, in the southwest, before a treaty with Sonny Z.
And in 1999, he published the first paper in Physics Review Letters, demonstrating that you could use an anti Stokes Raman scattering for imaging.
But he wasn't the first person to discover cause.
So Carlos was able for way mixing have been around since pretty much the very shortly after the first lasers were generated.
And there was a bunch of people working for the Ford Motor Company, um,
and they were interested in using vibrational spectroscopy to measure the temperature of combustion gases in engines and things.
Um, and they use this nonlinear interaction. They didn't have pulse lasers back then, so they were using very powerful continuous wave lasers.
Um, and they demonstrated that you could use this to set up to do vibrational spectroscopy on gases.
And it was quite funny, quite amusing, because they didn't they didn't call it cars.
They didn't come up with the acronym states Roman scattering. They called it something else like for wave mixing, Brahman something or other.
But I just think it's a bit of an irony that they were working for full company making cars, and they didn't think of calling it that.
Um, so anyway, interest on everybody, well, um,
and he was the first person to discover this or to actually read discover causes of causes and process and apply it to optical microscopy.
So it's this, this, this difference between the two excitation wavelengths.
And you tune it so that the difference in frequency between omega one and omega two, you tune it.
So the difference is matched to a particular vibrational resonance that you want to use to generate image contrast from.
And if you do that, another way of thinking of it is if you take your your two omega one and omega two,
and we now refer to them as the pump and the Stokes beam, because we don't just call them that, make it two.
So Stokes is the one which is equal to the to the ROM and emission that you would have got if it was spontaneous from it.
And the pumping is the one that sites out to this virtual level.
But if you if you think about what would happen if you sent in two optical fields together,
where the frequency difference is matched to the vibrational resonance that you want to imaged,
they're going to interfere with each other and you're going to get beating fields.
So if we add these two waves together, we get this beating field between them.
And that beating field is the frequency of that infrared transmission.
And that's where the resonance comes from. So we can drive this vibrational resonance coherently by the peak field between those two excitation waves.
And by doing that we excite the population to the first excited vibrational state.
And then our second pump photon, or our second omega two photon instantaneously comes in and causes the Stokes emission.
Anti Stokes anti Stokes emission shift light coming out.
And that's that's how we do cast microscopy.
It enables us to do very fast imaging.
But we've made a couple of sacrifices.
So instead of getting the whole spectrum out we focused all of our excitation onto one particular vibrational mode.
Um, and in this case we use the two vibrations in lipids.
Um, and lipids work very well because you get a lot of them.
You got a lot to say. One particular lipid, lipid molecule, you have quite a large number of you.
So you get strong signal lipids or something if you remember that are quite small.
And we don't want to be tagging them because their molecular weight is about the same size as time.
So this technique is found really great applications imaging lipids.
Um, and in this picture we've done a video right 3D imaging of lipids in skin.
So this kind of thing that kind of looks a bit like a parade as we go down through depth is something called the sebaceous glands.
And it's like the thing that you get in skin then it's oil. So that thing underneath the skin is full of lipids.
And that's why we can image it. And then we can map the lipids that being secreted out to the skin using this technique.
You also find lipids in brain tissue.
So if you come across myelin. So, you know, you get these neurons in your brain where the electrical signals travel down.
They're insulated with something called myelin, which is a lipid.
Um, so we can use that, use these that contrast to map out the neurons within the brain by tuning in to be kind of to contrast.
And this is a nice kind of analogy to the previous couple of slides where we looked at the recently labeled mouse brain.
So again, we pieced together lots of small tiles and we could image the whole brain 210 million pixels in around 30 minutes.
So we can do this on the same sort of time scale that you can do with fluorescence microscopy, which is great.
And we've also been playing around with kind of high speed imaging. So we do seven frames per second.
And we're looking at. It is quite complicated.
So this is a plant. It's a leaf. And this kind of blob on top of it is a fungus attacking the leaf.
And then it kind of the fungus sends this kind of little sheet down into the leaf, which is this side here.
And then because plants don't have a kind of immune system like we do,
they don't have like blood vessels driving around with immune cells in the plant has to respond to an infection locally.
So what we're looking at here is you see these little yellow droplets.
So this um line that we're looking at is the plant cell hole.
And what we're seeing is the plant sending little packets of stuff to reinforce the plant cell to try and contain the infection.
So this is really cool because we can we can visualize this kind of flow of material building up the plant cell wall in real time.
So that's just showing you things that you can do with label free imaging.
But we have to remember we've sacrificed the full spectrum. So we've chosen to focus the light coherently on to one particular vibrational mode.
And we can use that to map outlets at very high speed.
So when we're doing. Microscopy.
Um, it's important to be able to calculate the wave numbers that we want to hit.
So if you want to, if you if you look at the Raman spectrum of the molecule you want to image,
you need to find a pixel peak in that molecule and then tune the difference
between your pump and the Stokes laser so that you can hit that vibrational mode.
And that's given by these two equations here.
So this one is very similar to the Roman one is the Roman equation that we looked at previously.
But we've just rearranged it so we can calculate the Roman frequency as a, as a factor of the pump and the Stokes wavelength.
And then the second one that we need to do is to be able to calculate what the anti Stokes emission wavelength is masking by this equation here.
Yeah. So you can see where these come from. They're pretty straightforward.
It's just applying this frequency shift between these three wavelengths.
And knowing that the anti Stokes signal comes out at two omega P minus omega s.
And then I've rearranged it in terms of wavelengths. Yeah.
So to give you some examples like sort of a good practice question.
So we've got two synchronized ultrafast lasers used here from an microscopy.
Generate contrast of the two stretching mode, which happens to be at 2900 numbers.
One of the laces is fixed at 800 nanometres, and then we need to calculate what the other one needs to be tuned to be to hit that vibrational mode.
So that's pretty straightforward calculation. But we'll go through it just so you can see how it's done.
So the first part you'll see that okay. Okay.
So we use our equation. Vibrational frequency is one over the wavelength minus one over the Stokes wavelength.
Told the laser is fixed at 800 nanometers.
Don't know the stones, but we know that vibrational frequency is 20 900cm³, so we can rearrange our equation if us Stokes wavelength.
So now we've got everything we need to put the numbers in.
Hundred nanometres minus our wave number.
But we need to convert that back into meters. And that's really important.
Yeah. So we've given the vibrational frequency in centimeters.
But remember everything else is in meters. So we have to be consistent with these units.
So the numbers in. One over 960,000.
It's just. 1042 nanometres.
And just as a kind of sanity check when you're doing like an exam question.
If the answer was to come out at like ten microns or a kilometer, you would know it was out there and you made a mistake somewhere.
So with the kind of Roman calculations, you know, that you're only looking for,
say, a 200 ish nanometer difference between the companies don't speak yet.
When we calculated Roman shifts, we were using like a 75 laser, and we're expecting to get light out, like 800 and something.
So if it comes out, like, significantly different and not an optical wavelength, you know, you've made a mistake.
Yeah. On a standard kind of exam practice, always think about the answer.
Never trust your calculator because it's different if you've got room numbers because you press the wrong button.
And the second part is calculating the wavelength of the emitted car signal.
So we put our numbers in. And if the wavelength.
In and it comes out four, 6 or 9.
What's another sanity check that you would be able to do if you are calculating this?
So this is the anti Stokes emitted signal. What do you need to check.
What are you expecting with the anti Stokes emission. Remember Stokes ignition is a red shift.
Anti Stokes emission is blue shift. Say you've been given the pump wavelength at 800 nanometers.
Where do you expect the anti stokes signal to come out at just shorter.
So if it comes out longer than 800 you know you made a mistake. You expect it to come out shorter than 800.
And also you expect to get the same shift in the other direction.
Then you had pumping and you didn't see the company.
Stokes. So it's the same difference between.
This one an eight hundreds. It is between this one now.
Yeah. So just a quick sanity check that we need to do when to checking your exam questions before you move on to the next one.
Okay, so there's cause it's brilliant and it's got really cool acronym and links up that nice cartoon,
um, film picture that you can put in your posts and stuff that people laugh at that was expected.
This clip around like that, there's a bit of a problem with cars in that.
This arrangement of the photo of the two photons.
Corresponds to electronic resonance. Everything contains electrons.
Yeah. So you can't think of any material sample that doesn't have any electrons in it.
So whenever you're doing cause microscopy, whether it's in gases or in a microscope to do the images,
what you're interested in is looking at this transition here.
And you want to be able to selectively tune to different Roma transitions and use that as optical contrast for your images.
But what you can't get around is the fact that everything that you're imaging contains electrons.
So this configuration of the excitation diagram you're always going to be shaking electrons.
So you have always have this background in your image.
And what we're hoping is, is that the Roman signal is stronger than the electronic signal.
And it's not always the case. So a few years later, what you said, just nine years after Andreas published the first cause paper.
Microscopy paper, um, from the same group, this sunny Z guy.
But it moved to Harvard by the time he did this. So he he got everyone thought his paper on cause microscopy was so great.
He then offered a job as a professor at Harvard. Um, and then this guy Christian Project started working for him.
And they developed this alternative to coherent and Stokes Rothman, which is stimulated Raman scattering.
I like Christian, if you have the turf locks up and exits up out where the canal meets the sea.
So it's very good in the summer, and you can only get that by driving all the way up, walking the rest of it.
But we had a conference, and the conference data was there, and Christian was like, He's German, he comes with Feria and he likes beer.
And he was quite impressed with the English pumps. And he asked if he could have a go behind the glass of his own kind, and he liked it.
So I love that photo, Christian, because now he's now in California,
a startup company selling instruments using this technique for doing like, um, HD imaging.
Anyway, so what Christian came up with is to look at a different nonlinear problem and process that doesn't rely on for wave mixing.
And it's called stimulated Romanesque afternoon. And it's very it's the kind of vibrational analogy for stimulated emission in lasers.
So instead of driving the light between an excited kind of electronic population,
you still take your your own makeup on and you go make a tea and you tune.
And so that frequency match the frequency difference matches a vibrational transition that you want to excite.
And what you find is when you send your pump in your stokes, you're going to want to make a tube into the sample.
If you have this vibrational resonance in the sample, match the the difference between omega one and I make a tube.
You'll get stimulated Raman emission. So you send in your your green photon your omega one and you simultaneously send.
Did you red photon U omega two. If this Raman mode is present, the green photon gets absorbed and you get two red photons emitted.
So it's very similar to the lasing process but based around vibrational transitions instead.
So the reason we want to do it in this more complicated fashion is because there's no electronic background present.
So it's more sensitive to molecules that give you a weak signal.
It's a bit trickier to detect. So remember when we were looking at non-linear absorption and we were looking at dyes and haemoglobin.
And I introduced this idea of modulation transfer detection.
So we modulate one of the laser beams say the red one.
We switch it on and off. So each one of these lines is an optical pulse.
And we're switching it on and off for a few megahertz.
And just like for the absorption, this from and scattering can only take place when both the pump and Stokes beam switched on.
So if you then measure the intensity of the green beam, remember the green one is the one that disappears and you get two red ones produced.
You'll get a dip in the intensity of the green beam.
Only omega one. And we detect that. And what's this device called?
Anyone remember from last week? It's a locket amplifier.
And it's really just the posh, very expensive. They cost about ten grand.
It's a very posh way to detect amplitude modulated radio signals.
So you dial in the frequency that you're modulating this beam at.
And it just amplifies signals at that frequency.
You don't actually have to dial up, because the device that you use to create this modulation has an output,
and you just plug estimated to the input here,
and it locks into that frequency, and then it gives you the voltage corresponding to this to the amplitude of your signal.
And it works really well this time. So if we compare kind of a car's image.
So this is looking at these are cancer cells. And we've tuned to the lipid peak.
So we've got cancer cells. And the last line objects are lipid droplets within the cell.
So cancer cells have all cells have lipid droplets in the food.
So if we look at the cars the image of these cancer cells when we're tuned to the car to residents,
you say that everything that you're looking at is lipids.
When you tune away from the lipid residents, you see that the lipid droplets go dark and you're still left with the kind of the rest of the image.
And that's just where you're shaking electrons at that kind of non resonant frequency.
And we still get a signal if we take exactly the same image or quite at the same time at the same cells.
And we tune off the resonance. For SARS you get nothing.
So there's no background, you get background free image and it works much better and it's much easier to do.
Is it a parametric process or is it parametric process?
Go back to this diagram. What's a parrot?
What was the definition of a parametric process? Yes.
So to sit you have this optical process and the quantum state of the system is unchanged.
And no energy has been left in the, in the system. Well, well.
So this is, this is before happens and this is after it happens.
What's happened here. Monarch molecules are left in the first vibrational excited state.
So has the quantum state changed? Yeah.
So it's a nonparametric process. So we don't have to worry about that phase matching and the Curie phase shift.
We don't really care because it's a non-parametric process. So that makes it a lot easier to do it in real setups.
So the final thing we're going to think about, well,
kind of when we move on to the kind of types of lasers that we want to do to excite
these processes is when we've previously looked at non-linear interactions,
we talked about kind of squeezing the light into short pulses to increase the intensity.
So intensity is watts per square meter. You can increase that intensity by making the area small of a square meter.
And so focusing down to a tiny spot gives us a stronger response.
And the other kind of note that we get to turn to increase the intensity is to reduce the time width of the pulse.
So what's our joules per second. So if you make the duration shorted you boost up the intensity.
So if you want to just purely go for the strength of the signal,
you want to use the shortest pulse possible and the shortest kind of pulses that you might use um,
in a laser that you can generate nicely is about 100 femtoseconds.
But the downside is we know that the bandwidth of the pulse is inversely proportional, proportional to the width.
Yeah. So you make your pulse shorter at time the bandwidth goes up.
So if we then want to use this to excite Roman transitions, we'd be exciting a whole bunch of Roman transitions all at the same time.
Yeah. So if we look at this, this is the band that I was talking about earlier this quarter in three.
If we use one femtosecond pulses of 800 nanometers, the bandwidth is around ten nanometers.
You know how to calculate this now. You're not able to resolve individual peaks.
And we want to be able to tune to individual Roman peaks so that we get the chemical specificity.
So it's no surprise that the Roman linguist is about the order.
Peak seconds. So remember when we looked at the kind of origin, the polarization method?
We've got our electronic polarization happening on the scale of femtoseconds.
And our vibrational transitions happen on the scale of peak seconds.
So it's the line with the line width of your Roman peaks controlled by the time scale that they happen on.
So they happen on the picosecond time scale. And that means the line width is around not all of your nanometers.
So we need to use picosecond excitation pulses in order not to be.
So I took a whole bunch of those people at one time. Does that make sense?
Yeah. So we need to use picosecond excitation for vibrational nonlinear experiments unless we want to excite a whole bunch of them in one go.
So for some experiments it's actually helpful to excite.
A whole bunch of them all in one go. And in fact, in one of our experiments that we're doing.
We're exciting all of this in one go with ten femtosecond pulses.
I can I might tell you about the envelope in the exam. So the bit that you need to remember is to resolve individual peaks.
You need picosecond excitation to match the line width of the Roman band you want to use for contrast.
And you now know how to calculate the Roman light, the color shift and the Roman shift for pair of excitation lasers.
So that's kind of the end of non-linear microscopy.
So we've. Looks at more. We've come to the quick recap.
I've kind of gone over this to kind of re highlighting the limitations of conventional
optical imaging so that you can understand and explain what they are and more importantly,
understand how they can be overcome with nonlinear optical imaging.
So it decouples the excitation wavelength from the contrast mechanism that you're using.
It decouples the excitation wavelength from the scattering properties of the material.
And you gain back factor of one over 3 to 1 over three in the resolution because of the nonlinear squeezing effect.
And now we finally looked at how we could obtain Roman imaging on a time scale comparable with fluorescence microscopy.
So we can do it in biological systems. So people do do imaging of Roman because they're spending 10s per pixel.
It literally takes a day to acquire one image.
So that's okay if your sample isn't going to go off.
But if it's something that's made out of biological material, hydrated and drawing by the time you finished it.
So this is why we go to from and so we can do our video ray optical scanning with vibrational contrast.
And if anyone's interested. Particularly if you're doing your video on one of these techniques.
I review article it only by Hervé.
I think some of you are going to be interviewing this week, um, where he he wrote this review article looking at the different detection modalities.
Okay. So any questions? So if you haven't but like a chat with me about your video yet please do.
Do you have you have e-mailed something somebody said about when you said she was that.
Yes. Um. That wasn't I can't make that on Tuesday.
Oh I cannot, I've sent you an invite. Yeah. There was another group email me about when I was you guys, so yeah, I can't.
I've got me taking time to tell exactly that is talking to you later today.
Oh, you making me meeting Nick? It's real. Nothing. Oh, okay. So what are you doing at the end of today?
To make sure I've got microphones and stuff.
Do I hang back for a second and we'll come up with. Yes. You're meeting at three tomorrow or Wednesday.
Okay. So. Yeah, we'll just we'll.
Okay. See you tomorrow. I don't. Know.
What do you want me to say?
I'm sorry. Yeah, I just I'm not sure.
I'm. Sorry.
Okay. So.
You're. Good.
Yeah. I'm just sort of.
I guess I see. You and I just, like.
Are you okay? Yeah.
Yeah. Oh, great.
We hadn't even three minutes ago to see what worked for us.
Yes. Yeah. See how I can go through these awesome tips on how to do this.
And the first thing is to undo as well as derivation script.
So we're just doing like. Uh oh.
The easiest way to make your password. So what do you think?
So yeah. So you don't want everything.
Oh, okay. Yeah. Because we want it to, like, talk about what we can ask.
And. Yes, I really thought it.
Was contrast to show your face. Okay.
I'll see you. In my office on two, one.
Two. Four. Two. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Just.
Me and West on the screen. Yeah.
Have you all like, there's been, as far as I can say? 4:00 today.
I'm so excited. Yeah. Oh my gosh.
Oh, yeah. I think it between two.
Oh, I had the sushi legislative Wednesday. So, um.
Sorry, I can skip. I think we should get something.
I. Thursday of Thursday.
Yes. Friday. Me? Yeah. What is less?
Could I have loved something great? But. Yeah, first of all, 1 or 2.
But us. Yeah. I think worst case scenario,
it would just be a bit of a lecture that after this I to do a notebook probably about 12 or 15 minutes at least, or 30, which would be.
Yeah. Tough one. Yeah. So it starts off one might think so.
So you want to do you want to talk. You want to find the. Meeting Ruby in half an hour after a preliminary chat.
What's your email? Uh, between four and. If you got another that.
Sorry if you've got another question. So tell me, do we have to?
What if. Who's my friend who's contactable and do stuff down there, quote unquote the.
We have a pizza. Okay. I'll just invite you to the.
My concern is that we. Yeah, this is a concern.
Um. Hey, are you on the road? Uh, yeah.
I mean, if you if you don't if it's not fairly easy to work with.
No, I'll say no. Well, go on, Charlie, you can go.
Okay. Simply. Add to the pile.
Why not? And what I might do is just a sign that you all know that Dan's contacted me.
Oh, um, he's just not on campus. Oh, I see.
Okay? Yes. Yes. See you later.
Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm.