Um. Mm.
Um. Yeah.
I guess so. I don't even know.
Do. You want this one?
Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. So I've applied to places like, uh.
I love my English. Oh, yeah. Um.
Um. But essentially.
Yeah. I just want to thank you for.
Listening. I really.
Want to know more information.
Um, I know you can make. That through your own husband.
You know. Okay.
So maybe this one is likely to be important.
And apparently, the tone of the voice in your smartphone is a good one, too.
He does, which is what you want to do. But then you get him to do what's.
Best for you. And that sounds exactly sexy.
Oh. My word.
Oh. We break from the people who put the brakes on this machine.
I sometimes feel. Like.
I'm. Crazy.
I. Think I have to do this.
I mean, I was just thinking about this.
And I. Was.
Just like. I don't think this was.
Just. The opposite.
I don't know. I look. At.
The other person like me.
Like this feels like. It might be.
Coming from a lot of people. And.
Like you just got one mind.
I don't know what those people are doing.
I'm not that type of. I don't know.
Okay, let's get cracking then. So we started our lecture on nonlinear optical microscopy yesterday.
Um, so if kind of like you said, this is where all starts to come together.
So you kind of finally see how the nonlinear light matter interaction starts to link
up with the kind of all the other stuff that we've looked at in terms of microscopy.
We've explored the limitations of conventional microscopy,
and now we're going to see how we can overcome a lot of those limitations using nonlinear light matter in practice.
Um, so we did a recap of confocal fluorescence.
What's the big problem with using. What do we use?
Confocal detection first of all. What if they're overcome?
So. It gives us this nice, crisp image.
What does it allow us to do? What's the goal of using this confocal detection?
Yes. Just one layer. Yeah. So yeah.
So if you've got a thick sample and most things that exists don't exist as a kind of 2D slice that you've made of something,
that kind of big chunk of material, whether it's like biological material, a piece of a person.
You want to be able to image inside an object and see what's going on without having to cut a very thin section.
The big problem is that the outer plane signal is blurring, and this is why you can't look directly into your hand and see what's going on inside,
because you've got scattering and you've got blurring of all the tissues above and below the thing you want to look at.
So the way we get around this is to place a pinhole at the excitation light source, which is confocal.
So like the focal points match up with one at the detection side.
This clever mirror. Allows us to shine blue light through the mirror, and it affects the green for us and light.
And then we said yesterday, you follow the black line, and you can see that the black line corresponds to the focal plane of the objective.
Only fluorescence which is emitted from that focal point arrives at the detection pinhole.
And that is a way to eliminate out of plane fluorescent signal that you get.
And you can scan the laser spot around in 3D and you can recreate 3D images of your own chart.
But what's the big disadvantage of this technique?
If you want to look at something that's a real particle material, what's the real killer?
So I remember scattering. Yeah. So we looked at scattering.
And we said that the big problem with scattering in confocal detection is that even if you get light emitted from the focal plane,
if it undergoes any scattering events, it reaches the pinhole at the wrong position and the pinhole rejects it.
So it prevents you from seeing deep into tissues. So and the big problem is that.
Scattering. If we wanted to reduce scattering, we could do this by going to a long wavelength.
Yeah. Because scattering scales of one over wavelength to the core.
But the trouble is, it's in opposition with the spatial resolution, which is proportional to wavelength.
So to see small things, you want to use blue light and to see deep inside things you want to use red or ideally infrared.
Remember when I got that big tank of milky water and shot an infrared torch through it,
and you got your iPhones up and and the infrared light was much, much clearer.
The blue and the red light was scattered through that cloudy solution. So this is the problem we're up against.
So the the real the vantage of nonlinear excitation is that it scales non linearly with intensity.
So we're focusing the light into this microscope objective down to a small spot.
The small spot increases the intensity and it scales nonlinear with intensity.
And this means that if we compared the same microscope objective the same numerical aperture objective,
we're looking at fluorescence excited with blue light and then near-infrared light.
For the nonlinear excitation that's requiring two photons add up to be same energy as one of the blue photons.
Next. For essence, you only get the signal emitted from the focal volume,
where the intensity is extremely high because it scales with the square of the intensity.
And this has a really big advantage. A two fold in palm.
The first one is that we don't need the pinhole,
so we can do away with the pinhole at the excitation and more importantly, the pinhole at the detector.
We only excite the nonlinear process right at the very focus of the microscope objective, where the intensity is high enough.
Because remember we're looking for high electric fields to excite this process, the light that's emitted.
So dealing with fluorescence that fluorescence signal is going to come out.
It's going to be green light.
It's going to get scattered in exactly the same way that the green light produced in the linear one photon fluorescence approach would.
But we don't care if it gets scattered so the light can get it scattered as much as it wants on the way back out the sample.
We can put a big collecting lens in front of our detector to collect all those scattered light, and then we can focus it down onto our detector.
So we don't care if it's been scattered because we know where it was kept, where it came from.
So the nonlinear excitation confines the signal generation to the focal spot that we have full control over.
So just like confocal detection, we can scan that spot around in 3D.
And we don't care how much it's scattered by because we know where it is produced.
And the second vantage is that instead of coming in with blue light which gets scattered,
the excitation light itself is double the wavelength and we get a 16 fold decrease in the scattering.
So we can go much, much deeper into the tissue with the excitation light without, um, inducing any scattering.
Our focus is a nice, mostly tight on scatter beam.
The light being emitted gets scattered as much as it wants, and we don't care.
We just collect all the scattered light coming back.
So that allows us to go much deeper into into scattering tissue such as skin, brain tissue, for example.
And it has this fantastic property that it decouples the excitation from the emission wavelength.
So all these problems of scattering versus spatial resolution and scattering versus the polarization mechanism,
remember these dyes need to be excited in the blue or the green wavelength.
We can now suddenly excite the same fluorescence process at double the wavelength.
Well, as if we can find a second three times the wavelength so we can go much deeper.
So this is an example image. Um, something from a scientific paper, uh, brochure showing how deep somebody's image.
Um. Fluorescently labeled mouse brain neurons in a slice in a thick slice of brain.
And you can see you can go all the way down to almost a whole millimeters, are 600, 800 microns.
Into this gray is a really high scattering tissue.
Does anyone seem like a piece of brain? A photograph of it in a mouse brain slice.
Oh, no. Jane, what? What color is that? I'm seeing?
Like a brain. Like a picture of a brain. Not on a human brain.
On. That's right.
Yeah. And boy, are they boys. Yeah, the Hawaii scattering.
So, like the new, all the neurons in the brain protected by like something called myelin, which is basically like a lipid and they're very scattering.
So it's a good it's a good example to show how deep think you can go so that you can go.
And people have gone beyond a millimeter into mouse brain these techniques now.
So it really enables you to go much much deeper into the tissue.
And so two photon fluorescence exciting with twice the wavelength of half the energy.
You can also do this with three photons. So you can have a third order nonlinear process where you go in with three infrared photons again three each.
All three of them add up to the excitation of your dye.
Um, and this really extends the imaging depth that you can go to.
Um, and people are also developing or have developed um, fluorescent labels,
which are excited in the red and near-infrared so that you can really push the depth penetration of these techniques into optical,
into optically scattering material, so that you can see deep inside living tissues.
Can you think of another advantage of going from kind of blue to infrared or near infrared excitation photons in terms of imaging living tissues?
I'm enjoying it. Yeah. So each individual photon itself carries less energy.
You know that photons have quantized energy. Blue photons.
A formal photo toxic to near-infrared photons.
So you can put quite high power of these near-infrared photons into a living tissue without inducing so
much damage than you could with the blue excitation light required to excite that fluorescent process.
So this is the kind of state of the art in biological fluorescence.
So using multi photon excitation with decouples the excitation from that the emission wavelength.
And we can go really deep into biological tissues in a way that's far more compatible
with biological tissues because the light itself undergoes less scattering.
And the photon energy is 2 or 3 times lower, enabling us to kind of use higher powers in living tissue without inducing any kind of damage.
So the next kind of contrast mechanism.
We're going to look at, if you remember back to absorption.
Does anyone remember the name of this type of contrast, this pink and purple stain.
What's useful? That's conventionally kind of referred to as H, and E doesn't remember what the H, for example.
So this is used clinically to diagnose cancer.
So the HCV toxin and the E is S in the heme a toxin binds to chromatin in the nucleus and the acid binds to extracellular proteins and things.
So if we remember back to looking what it looks like if you put biological tissues under a microscope, have you been stained.
We didn't see very much. Everything's kind of colorless and you don't have any contrast.
So people want to have kind of hundreds of years that see this.
This technology is about 100 years old now, have come up with these stains where you can take a slice of tissue.
You can stain it with these different dyes, which have an affinity to bind to different parts.
And then you get these beautiful pink and purple contrast of tissues.
And this is the kind of gold standard in cancer diagnostics.
So if you have an endoscopy or a kind of a lump removed or something,
they'll take the tissue and they'll send it away to the lab or they'll stain it like this.
And then a panel of trained pathologists will look at those images, and they can look at the distribution of cells and, and how they appear.
And then they can make a decision about whether it's cancerous or not and what stage of cancer,
and ideally, how that cancer might respond to different types of tissue as a therapy.
So the reason this works well is because you've taken a very thin section of the tissue.
So this is living tissue. This is tissue that's come out of a patient and it's been sliced.
And then it's been stained when it's been sliced and it's created this very nice thin section.
And we need a nice thin section. Remember, because of this kind of blurring out of plain structures within the tissue.
So essentially we've created a kind of stained glass window effect where you can hold these slides up to the light and see through them.
You put them under a microscope and you can see the cellular structures.
Does anyone remember what I said was one of the big problems with absorption as a contrast mechanism?
If you wanted to be quite quantitative about what you're looking at.
For to time. That was looking at that was that was a transboundary elephant, wasn't it?
But yeah, that's a kind of a fact. You know, you're dying. You died petition.
You changed. You know, actually looking at the chemicals in the tissue, you're looking at the dyes.
And you just trust the fact that the biochemistry of those dye sticks, the thing you're interested in.
So that's one important point to consider. And the second one is that we don't really have any control.
We have to control the fitness very carefully if we want to know about the concentration dye.
So the absorption that we get is a function of both the path length and the concentration.
So if you can get a very thin controlled uniform section, you can take an image and you know,
you can compare the density of the stain across the image.
But if you don't have a uniform thickness,
you don't know whether it's the concentration that's changing or the thickness of your sample of your sample that's changing.
So as you can guess, if you do this with nonlinear optics and it overcome some of these limitations.
So just as we looked at exciting fluorescence with a single photon and then looking at how we can do that in the two photon world,
we can take two photons. Either the two photons have half the excitation energy add up to the absorption to the absorption band of our dye,
or we can take two photons at different energies.
Both add up to give us this electronic transition that we're looking for.
But if we use two different photos, it enables us to see absorption.
So there's no fluorescent emission here this time. So before we just took two red photons they added up to a blue one.
And we detect the emission coming out here. The challenge is to detect what is emitted.
Yeah. So this is much more challenging to do. And this is why we have to traditionally take a thin section.
But if we take two photons of unequal frequency or wavelengths that add together to give us an absorption,
we can use nonlinear absorption to map the concentration of these chromatophores, these absorption compounds in 3D.
So it's a non-linear process. So we know it only happens at the focus of our microscope objective.
We don't need confocal detection. We can scan it around in 3D.
And what we do is so this is in a green box.
So you don't need to remember this bit. But it's kind of useful to know.
We use a detection scheme called modulation transfer.
So when we've got the two colors,
the green photon and the red photon both adding up to give us the energy of a blue photon, which we get for absorption.
That pull is that pulse lasers, because we need the pulse lasers to get the high field intensity to excite the nonlinear process.
But what we do is we modulate one of the beams.
So these are like whole bunch of pulses that we know pulses, whole bunch of pulses, no pulses.
And then the other beam is just left on permanently.
And what we do is we look on the other side of the sample and we detect the intensity of the non modulated beam.
And because the absorption can only happen when both photons, both colors are present.
So the green photons alone on enough to excite this energy transition.
When the red photons are also there, we get absorption.
And what you see is a dip in the intensity of the green beam.
When the red being switched on. Yep. Can you see how that works?
So that enables us to detect absorption events without having to work out the thickness of the tissue in effect.
And it only happens at the focus. The absorption only happens at the microscope focus.
It's a bit tricky to to see this. This is a tiny different modulation.
And we use a box. This is called a locking amplifier.
And essentially it's a radio receiver. And we we hooked the radio receiver up to the device that causes the modulation.
So the frequencies are synchronized. And then it just amplitudes the modulation frequency on the detected signal.
So we plot the amplitude of this modulated signal. And it allows us to image absorption in 3D.
We don't need confocal detection. And we can scan the laser scope round in 3D.
So one. Example where you can use this if you want it to image hemoglobin.
Where do you find hemoglobin? Blood cells.
So these are blood cells full of hemoglobin.
Um, we can tune the sum of the two beams so that they match one of the hemoglobin absorption bands.
And then you can test these red blood cells that I've just been placed down on on a piece of glass.
And you can image them and you see the classic kind of donut shape of the red blood cells.
And then here we're imaging. A mouse brain, and you can map out the vasculature of the mouse brain based on the hemoglobin absorption.
And you can do this in 3D. So this cube is like 400 by 400 by 300 microns.
It's a reasonably big chunk of the brain. And you can map out the blood vessel structure in 3D based on the absorption of the hemoglobin.
So we're using we're not having to stain so the blood vessels.
So without nonlinear absorption, um, people would have to inject like a fluorescent dye into the blood stream so that you can see them.
So this happens medically in like fluoroscopy people are already into, into your blood so that you can see the blood vessels.
But here we can use the naturally occurring absorption in the hemoglobin because we can use this nonlinear absorption effect.
And this is useful for looking at kind of studying blood vessels.
Um, it's quite interesting to look at tumors.
So if you wanted to image tumors and understand how blood vessels grow in tumors, you can mapping out the blood vessels in 3D is really important.
Um, one of the big problems in tumor growth is that you get quite a.
Non-uniform distribution of blood vessels, and this causes like very little dead patches within the tumors.
And you don't get enough oxygen there.
And it also affects your ability to deliver drugs to those tumors because you're going to deliver the drugs through the blood vessels.
So understanding how blood vessels form in tumors is a really important thing to be able to do.
And this enables people to do it. So.
You might be thinking we've gone from blue excitation wavelengths to red and infrared.
What's happened to the spatial resolution? So I've kind of told you that the spatial resolution is really important to see small things.
And we've looked at the very diffraction limit.
And we've said that the smallest separation between two objects is given by that formula.
So all of a sudden we decided to go from, um, say blue light to 400 nanometers.
We excited the two photon excitation. We've got to double that excitation wavelength and three photons we call double again.
So initially this looks quite bad.
Yeah. So it looks like we've sacrificed spatial resolution to see deeper into the tissue.
So if we looked at a particular fluorescent doorway.
So there's a fluorescent dye called Alexa absorbs blue light.
And if you put some numbers. So just numerical aperture into that equation.
The smallest spatial resolution you get for 100 nanometers is around 200 nanometers, which is pretty good.
Um, obviously we double the excitation wavelength. Our diffraction limit is now 400 nanometers.
And then at three photon excitation.
We're now at 800 nanometers. Yeah. So initially this looks a bit worrying because we can't beat the diffraction limit.
We've doubled or tripled the excitation wavelengths.
So what do we do about spatial resolution?
Can anyone see how we claw back some of the spatial resolution?
So the really cool thing about nonlinear imaging is that we can beat the diffraction limits of light.
So if we think about this hourglass that we get as we focus our light through a microscope objective,
we've already discussed that because our signal scales nonlinearly with the square of a third power of three photon excitation with the intensity,
we only get the signal generated at this tiny spot right at the focus of the microscope objective.
So we've I've already kind of given you a warning that we we're going to model the kind of airy disc,
the central glow with a Gaussian and Gaussians are much easier to work with.
They're not a bad approximation to the shape of the M central limit theory disk, but they're much easier to work with.
And yesterday we learned, or we reminded ourselves how to calculate the full width half maximum of a Gaussian.
Yeah. So we this is our Gaussian function of intensity.
So we we placed in it the maximum intensity is two and the intensity is one.
And then we convert that to four with half maximum. And we arrived at this relationship between the standard deviation and the of maximum.
Yeah. So the full width half maximum as our Gaussian spot is what we're going to define as the spatial resolution of a microscope.
Yeah. So for blue light for linear excitation.
That the diffraction limit is given by the width of that support.
So the full width half maximum of a Gaussian beam is not.
Yeah. The really interesting thing is if we then go to two photon excitation.
So we now get to double the wavelength. The size of this spot gets squeezed in.
Yeah. So we've squared the intensity. We've squared the Gaussian because because our signal scales with intensity squared.
So it's pinched in that Gaussian function. And you're all familiar with.
I think in quantum mechanics last year when you were sketching like sine waves and then the square of your wave function and it was a sine squared.
So your sine wave kind of gets pitched in a different way. This is exactly the same thing.
If you take Gaussian and square it they get kind of squeezed in.
So I kind of refer to this as the kind of nonlinear squeeze effect.
So if you take your Gaussian function you square it. So this is our Gaussian squared.
And then to look at the relationship between the standard deviation of the two photon width compared to the single photon width.
If you take that factor of two and put it inside the brackets here and then and then reorganize it, so you've got it in front of your sigma,
you can see that you get a factor of one over root, two between the spatial resolution at the single photon excitation and your two photon excitation.
And you'll see that. So this means that for two photon fluorescence,
instead of your two photon fluorescence being twice the spatial resolution of twice the size of the spot,
you claw back a factor not of a half that would be that would give you the exact same resolution,
but you get a factor of one over root two that you've recovered through that nonlinear excitation.
And then if we apply the same principle to a third order process of the three photon excitation,
this time you put the three inside the bracket and you get factor one over root three.
Yep. Did everyone follow the. So as an example we've got.
So we've got a typical kind of practice question.
So a tissue is labeled with a fluorescent dye to provide contrast to the nuclei.
And it has an expectation wavelength 400 nanometers in the blue.
So the question is use the Gaussian approximation theory just to compare the
theoretical spatial resolutions of single two and three photon microscopy.
So we use our normal equation 1.6 lambda with an A.
So for the single photon. C d1 d.
1.61 times 400 nanometres, divided by the RNA 244 nanometres.
You can say the two photon. This time exactly the same.
£0.02. Nanometers is one, and that will give us eight.
Eight nanometers. Then we have to remember we've got this factor of one over root two.
The actual spatial resolution we get is 3040.9m.
And then if we look at the three photon.
So you can see the resolution that we achieve at two photon and three photon excitation isn't as good as the 244 nanometer resolution,
which is the theoretical spatial resolution that you could achieve in confocal microscopy.
But it's not twice as bad. Yeah. And the reason that that kind of is actually better than it sounds is because this,
this theoretical figure that you could achieve with linear excitation and confocal detection,
you can only achieve under optimal conditions where you've got absolutely no scattering,
a completely 2D sample like a monolayer of cells, and it's not in tissue at all.
So if you were to take a single photon excitation and try to achieve this in more than a few tens of microns of depth into the tissue,
the signal would just disappear. And in practice, what biologists have to do to see anywhere beyond, say,
100 microns or even 50 microns into biological tissues is they have to open up the pinhole in order to collect more of the scattered photons,
which reduces the spatial resolution that you get.
So you could achieve either of these rays.
So this this with two photon excitation you probably go to half a millimeter and achieve that resolution.
You can achieve that resolution confocal detection.
And then this kind of half micron resolution that you can achieve with the three photon.
This you could do about a millimeter. So in practice this number isn't achievable in scattering material.
And I guess in terms of how you would apply,
if you want to image something that's completely flat and a nice perfect slice, you wouldn't use two photon excitation.
You would go for your confocal microscope as soon as you got any scattering.
You can't achieve this any meaningful depth. So you have to go to these nonlinear processes Z1C.
What the. Yeah. So let's look at some more exotic types of contrast that we can get.
So does everyone remember face matching from a couple of lectures ago?
Yeah. So you've seen this picture where we're taking what optical process.
And we showing in this one what's what's it called. Taking two photons with k1 and k2 and adding note to K3.
What was that one called? Second order process.
Some frequency generation. Yeah. So some I adding up.
We've also got different frequency generation. This is some frequency generation.
So some frequency generation.
Requires phase matching where we've looked at this process here which is fluorescence x diagram.
Is this by the way to Blonsky diagram. So we have.
Now we need to think about the difference between this fluorescence process and this wave mixing process.
So in the sum frequency generation momentum matching and phase matching between
the input and output fields is critical whereas it is in the fluorescence process.
And what's the difference here between these two processes.
Ignoring what's in the red box. What what happens in fluorescence.
That doesn't happen in some frequency generation.
So in some frequency generation, if I were to draw the Blonsky diagram for some frequency.
What would it look like? Would I have any wiggly lines?
So the Jablonski diagram would just have omega one and omega two going up to a fixed point, and then omega three coming straight back down.
Yeah. What are these wiggly lines. What do they refer to?
Non optical processes. So these are vibrational transitions or relaxations.
So what's happening in a vibrational transition.
Is that? Where's the energy going?
So we were kind of we went to up here and then we kind of come down this wiggly line, and then we ended up at this lower energy point.
What's happened to this energy in the wiggly line? It wasn't an optical transition.
There's no photon that's connected. Where's the energy gone? It's gone into the material as heat.
So we have excited molecular vibrations. And this works at a time scale.
Does this happen on vibration polarizations. Picosecond time scales.
Yeah. So this is an instantaneous effect.
So we excite up to this level. It sits there for short amount of time few picoseconds.
Then it relaxes down. And in the time that it's taken for that vibrational transition to happen we've lost the coherence of our signal.
Yeah. So at some frequency generation we the two photons mix together and then instantly a coherent photon was emitted.
And this is why we have to have the phase matching because the blue line has to be coherent.
So the red line for the red lines for them not to cancel each other out.
Whereas in the parametric process we because we've got some kind of time delay, the photons go in, they get absorbed,
and then the system sits there, decides to relax, and then eventually emits a shorter wavelength photon.
There's no phase relation between the fluorescence and the excitation emission and the work.
The take the terms for this is parametric for the wave mixing in that it's like some frequency.
So for a parametric process the light interacts.
So the quantum the quantum state is unchanged in the material.
There's no energy transfer and no energy or momentum between the optical fields in the material.
And this is why we have to have this phase matching effect. Because if we don't phase match, the signals cancel out.
Whereas in the parametric non parametric process there is an interaction.
The quantum mechanical state has changed.
We've deposited energy into the material and there's no phase relationship between the input and the output signal.
So this is where it starts to get quite interesting.
So.
When we looked at phase matching for some frequency generation as our example, I made it quite clear that we were only dealing with collinear beams.
So we're sending in the omega one and the omega two nicely parallel together.
And we're looking at omega three some frequency coming out in the same direction parallel with those two beams.
Yeah. But when we're doing microscopy we're focusing the light down to a tiny spot so that we can see small stuff.
Yeah. And this has a couple of advantages and also a complication as we're going to see we use that complication to our advantage.
So focusing the light beam first of all relaxes the phase matching criteria.
So when you've got K1, K2 and K3 all coming in at different angles in quite a tight focus, you've got a range of k vectors for each of the beams.
So that enables you to overcome some of the phase matching,
just by the fact that the case will go a bit different and we can come out at different angles.
And that enables us to phase match to kind of the angular effect of the beams matching mixing together.
So we have this range of wave vectors so we can cope with delta k being non-zero much better.
Before it gets complicated. And also quite interesting is this effect called the gooey phase shift.
And I kind of hinted about this at the end of the phase matching section in the what happens when
you focus a light beam through a tight focus and you get this phase mismatch along the Z direction.
And if you kind of think about how a lens works with this curved surface,
the focusing itself is created through the phase mismatch across the wavefront.
So the light from outside of this focal spot cancels out destructively and then mean the stuff in the middle.
You get constructive interference.
So the consequence of this is that along the Z direction, you get a Pi phase shift when you go from one side to the other side of the focal spot.
Yeah. And this is called the gooey phase shift because it was discovered by a French mathematician called Luigi.
So you get this negative phase shift from one side of the focus to the other.
And this has some quite interesting implications on doing nonlinear using parametric processes in a microscope.
Because if you you know. So if you remember back to the kind of output of our phase matching derivation that we did,
we kind of we went through all these derivations and we showed that if we
looked at the phase mismatch and how it builds up across interaction length L,
you get this sinc squared function that shows how the signal scales as a function of delta k l.
And the important point was that when you get to this point here where the interaction length multiplied by the phase mismatch delta k,
when that reaches high, your signal disappears.
And this has implications in optical microscopy because this delta, this uh,
l the interaction length is the length of our focal spot in the, in the z direction on the axial direction.
So if we think about the focal spot being our interaction length.
We need to consider phase mismatch or the phase matching within that that interaction length.
So looking at the result from this plot here,
we only get a non-linear signal created when our focal spot in the Z direction is smaller than pi over delta k.
Yes. So L is the interaction length, but that's the z size of our focus spot.
So that has implications when we try to do microscopy.
So if we think about second harmonic generation.
So second order optical process sending to lots of omega one and omega two out.
We focus the light down into a small spot that gives us an interaction length L.
And if we were to write out the face matching equation for this process and factor in that,
we get the gooey phase shift across the focal volume of a lens,
and we have to put factor of two in, because each one of these, um, photons k one and k two.
Each give us a Pi phase shift. So the gooey phase shift is equal to pi.
And that's lambda one times the times k1.
So we put that into our phase matching equation. Delta k is the difference between the refractive index effect of omega one and omega two.
We substitute in the value for the Curie phase shift,
and we find out in order for our signal not to cancel out, the interaction length has to be smaller than.
Omega one divided land one divided by two.
So if we're doing, um, second harmonic generation, let's say very exciting.
The sample with 800 nanometres.
And we're connecting the light coming out to omega two, which we call 100 nanometers, with the nonlinear squeeze effect that we talked about.
You can achieve L being approximately the size of lambda over two, maybe slightly smaller.
And because we're only dealing with a factor of two between omega one and omega two, delta K itself is small ish.
Yeah. So that means we can do second harmonic generation in a microscope.
And we don't get this destructive interference of the signal across the focal volume.
And in biological imaging this is used to image a couple of different types of unique power molecules.
So if you remember back to when we looked at the susceptibility for second order processes, they had to be non center symmetric structures.
And it turns out that's quite rare in kind of naturally occurring materials.
But luckily there are a couple of different biomolecules that do have this lack of center symmetry.
One of them being collagen seven come across collagen for.
What do you know about college in. You get it in like shampoos that people have advertised collagen shampoos.
But that's just a waste of time because it doesn't have to do it. It can all go into your head.
Every tissue you get cleansing creams in your skin can't take up collagen.
It's all just a bit of a marketing exercise. But the reason people like collagen, I want to keep hold of that kind of challenge is this kind of a,
um, protein molecule that gets laid down at a very early age,
and it's the kind of the non stretchy polymers that you get within the skin that stop you getting wrinkly.
And that's why people like to advertise collagen in face creams.
Because they think that applying college into your skin is going to make me less wrinkly.
But I don't think it does. Um, but collagen is very important.
You get it in cartilage, like on the articular surfaces of your knees.
So when people get older and they get arthritis and so knees and joints, it's because the colleges break you down.
Um, you get colleges all over the place. And it's the kind of one of the major kind of building blocks of the extracellular matrix.
And the great thing about second harmonic generation is that you get optical contrast of for free with second harmonic generation.
The other one, which is kind of happens in abundance and also happens to be the non-central symmetric polymer, is missing.
You heard of myosin. Where does my son get produced?
Yeah. Muscle fibers. So myosin gets slowed down in muscle fibers.
So you get this nice all loaded distribution of myosin fibers in muscles.
And you can use this to um image kind of muscle fiber structure to study things like muscular dystrophy in animal models and things.
So second harmonic generation is a grade three optical contrast that works in a tight
microscope volume because we can just about overcome the phase matching condition.
Where it gets a bit more interesting is when we start to look at third order optical processes.
So third harmonic generation, similar process to second harmonic generation.
Um, and in theory, most things should give you a third harmonic signal because most things are essentially symmetric.
Yeah. So the second order process was limited to non center symmetric things.
And we get this unique contrast from college in my cell a lot of things should give us a third harmonic signal.
But there's a bit of a complication here because now our omega this should be arrhythmic a two is three times omega one.
Delta K is now kind of not in significance.
It's much larger.
And also we have to factor in three times the gooey phase shift because we've got three excitation photons going through the tight phase,
but, um, tight focus. And this now means that our interaction length L has to be smaller than a third of the excitation wavelength.
And this isn't so easy. And it turns out you can't achieve the phase matching across the microscope objective.
And what you end up seeing.
In contrast, the contrast that you get from the from the microscope, you only it gives you something that's very sensitive to interfaces.
So everything inside the microscope focus volume should be able to produce a third harmonic signal.
But it turns out only things that are very thin give you a signal.
So thin particles or interfaces between different materials and you get this kind of.
It's very similar to phase contrast microscopy. But you can do it in 3D.
And because of this part of the QE phase shift, limiting the interaction length to lambda over three CMC,
contrast from interfaces between materials and objects within your sample that are thinner than the wavelength over three.
And then as a kind of teaser for the next lecture, where we start to look at the really cool stuff is, if you remember,
I highlighted one combination, the third order processes, and said, this is the one we're going to look at in detail.
So there's one called forward mixing where instead of looking at three lots of omega one adding up to omega two here, one of our omega ones.
Well adding wavelengths has the opposite frequency sign.
So it's the complex conjugate that we're looking at. So we're taking two lots of omega one minus omega two gives us our generated signal.
And by doing this, the reason we're interested in detecting the emission omega three.
And by the way, we also emit we're also producing loads of different wavelengths coming out.
It's just where we choose to detect omega three. But if we do it this way, it has the advantage that the phase shift portion cancels out.
So we're looking at the complex conjugate. So the k vectors have the opposite sign and the phase shift cancels out.
The same thing happens in the phase mismatching delta k.
So these two cancel out. So all of a sudden we don't have such a problem with phase matching in a tight focus.
And we can we can look at samples using this always mixing.
So you can draw it in this way where it's two lots of omega one minus omega two giving us our full wave mixing signal.
But you can also draw it in this way. Yeah. What does this diagram look like?
Where have you seen a diagram? A bit like this before. If we can't ignore that bit.
Where have you seen something that looks like that? Quite early on.
Remember Roman scattering? Yeah. So if you ignore what happens here, this is identical to the transitions that we drew from Roman scattering.
So in the next lecture. We're going to look at the really cool stuff where we kind of look at something called coherent.
Problem and scattering. So where we can do Roman scattering using nonlinear excitation through this
combination of four wave mixing where this first bit gives us Roman scattering.
Okay. So. It's very exciting on Monday.
We have some cool stuff. Any questions?
Okay. See you all on Monday. Yes.
Thank you so. Much. For.
Coming. To be honest. I'm not sure.
It's. Either that or I just, uh, I think.
I was just, like, sleeping on the floor.
I think I. Actually thought.
It was some. Kind of question.
It was stupid on the. Way.