I it. I mean, this is.
Like how? Like. You.
Know. I.
Think. You.
Can. Actually pay.
Like. It's.
Good to. See?
You. Next time on the station.
If you want additional information.
This is something. We should do because it is so close to your.
Heart. And.
I. Don't.
Know how many times we. Have to do this, but I guess.
This is just one. Of the reasons why people like that.
Okay, so now we're onto the fun part of the module.
So I'm introducing your reading assessment, which, as you know, makes up 30% of the module.
Um, and this is kind of assessing your physics knowledge in quite a different way.
So rather than conventional methods of an exam or problem sheet or a piece of coursework, um, you're going to make a video.
So you're going to work in groups of four.
Um, I sent out an email at the end of last week to give you a kind of heads up to start getting yourself into groups of four.
So I've received a few emails and people told me what they want to go in,
and if I couldn't find a group of some people that left over, say so, you must be on your own.
Um, so yeah. So the idea here is it's an assessment in interpreting information from the literature.
So it's going to involve quite a lot of research that you're going to do on the internet, on down to about the topic,
um, you're going to be applying the physics knowledge that you've learned in the lecture course,
either on Raman, um,
infrared or nonlinear light interactions to explain the phenomenon and then introduce it in an interesting way to someone that doesn't know about it.
Um, and you're also going to be showing how this particular kind of topic, phenomenon,
technique or whatever can be applied to solve real world research problems.
And I picked something that's going to be quite interesting. And obviously a big part of this is science communication skills.
So communicating science is a really big part of being a physicist.
Um, and you're going to be exploring how to do this in the media videos rather than kind of writing presenting.
So for the purpose of this exercise, you guys are scientific journalists.
You're going to be communicating complex materials.
So the stuff that we've covered, the light matter interaction and the nonlinear light matter interaction.
It's quite complicated. And some of the derivations, as you've seen, can be quite mathematical.
So you're going to have to come up with a kind of clever and innovative way to incorporate this into your video,
so that you can show people how to do the derivation. Um, so that's part of the planning that goes into it.
Um, another part is then interpreting information from scientific literature.
So. The topics that you get assigned and the people that you get assigned to be in your videos.
We have done some research in those areas,
so it's up to you to find out what they've done and think about how you would prepare your video based around that material.
Um, then you're going to kind of plan your video, how you're going to structure it, and then you've got the kind of preparation side of it.
So as we're going to talk about it later, that the people that you're interviewing are very busy people.
You need to prepare. Tell them what you're going to ask them.
Prepare your questions in advance. Make sure you've got everything ready.
Set the expectations with them so they know how much time they need to give you.
And then you turn up and do the interview kind of prepared.
Um, and then finally, you're going to be kind of editing and putting all your content together so that you can present it in the form of a video.
So science. So communicating science is really important.
Whether you're an academic standing up, giving lectures, teaching or a lecture course, or giving a scientific presentation at a conference.
You could go into teaching in schools.
You could go into public engagement, journalism, marketing work in an industry where you have to kind of market your your science or whatever.
The objective of the thing is that you've developed in your industry.
So learning how to communicate to the kind of general public and scientific community about the results is really, really important.
It's a kind of historically kind of scientists.
The only way they could communicate this kind of publicly in lecture theater is telling people about their results.
I mean, even back in those days, like, you could write it, you could write letters and journals, but people wouldn't be able to find them.
There was no internet. They weren't available in all libraries.
So people were very good at kind of standing up and giving theatrical talks about their science.
And obviously nowadays with things like YouTube and internet, it's changed dramatically.
And the really cool thing is you can you can reach a huge audience of like hundreds of thousands of people by putting something online.
You make a good video and then lots of people are going to find it.
So, for example, your video could include interpretation of the nonlinear optical susceptibility.
And then people might search for that when they're researching to learn about nonlinear optics.
They'll find your video. Then you get kind of people watching it.
And you can help those people taking the information that you've communicated.
So yeah, this is the kind of modern version of the traditional kind of scientific lecture.
So this year I've got some new topics.
So to make it, I just thought it'd be quite cool to introduce a couple of three real world researchers from around the world this year.
Um, so some of my colleagues from the department. So, Nick, does anyone know Ben Gardner?
Yeah. So he he teaches in biophysics, met Nick Stone.
So he's again a professor in the biophysics group. These these two have offered to talk about their work in optical spectroscopy.
Um, so Nick does a lot of work in diagnosing cancer. Ben's doing general biomedical spectroscopy.
So you get to interview those guys and talk to them about their research.
Um, and then this year, I've also brought in some people that I know from around the world.
So we've got Batum, which is an interesting chap in Australia.
Um, and he's been using vibrational spectroscopy to analyze mummies.
So he's doing some really cool stuff, trying to understand kind of not quite sure what he's trying to understand at the moment,
but I think it's to do with something to do with firewood and how it helps preserve the mummies or something.
So he's like different really, really old burial samples, trying to understand what the chemical composition was.
I think it's also something to do with like environmental stuff, because obviously these mummies are ridiculously old.
And then he's learning about like the carbon dioxide levels in the, in the, well, all that long time ago.
So that you can, you can extract some really cool information from those preserved biological tissues.
Um, we've got Doctor Sarah Mosca from Oxford at the Bradford Harwell complex who's been using Roman spectroscopy to analyze artwork,
and she's also been using it to look at, um, preserved type tissues that have been preserved in lactic Joseph, like formaldehyde.
And they've been kept that for by hundreds of years.
And again, they can kind of look back in time and kind of understand what was happening in the world.
And then also new for this year, one of my final year and first year was does anyone know.
Very. So Ruby's project, um, she's been using AI to train AI to read the images that we've created with nonlinear optics.
So she's done some really cool work with cancer diagnostics, training neural networks to recreate medical images,
and then to diagnose medical images so she can talk about her work.
So these are the there's 24 review groups of four make six groups.
So you get assigned to one of these topics. If anyone has a preference for one of these topics payment email.
And I'll try and give everyone that reference. Obviously if there's loads of people wanting to do you want you can do the same topic?
Um, yeah. So you'll get to interview some actual real world scientists.
So these guys are like the stars or the celebrities, and it's your job to kind of make contact with them and to research what they're doing,
and then to prepare an interview and think about how you're going to frame it into a video.
Everyone excited. So I'm going to give you some kind of tips on how to structure your video.
Um, so I went on like an afternoon that's a whole day course on how to make videos so I can teach you guys how to make videos.
So these are just some of the kind of pointers that that I learned when I was doing it in terms of the how technique,
how to use the technology and how to edit to it. So in terms of putting your video together, this is the kind of suggested structure.
So you'll kind of start with a sort of teaser part of the video.
And why might this be important. Why would you just go straight into the introduction.
Do you guys watch videos on the internet? If you're looking for information.
Like when you're sort of searching a topic from physics and you're looking for like a YouTube tutorial or to find some information,
how much of the videos you watched before you think, now this is more.
I'm looking forward to the next one. How many seconds?
Not many. Yeah. So the idea of the teaser is that somebody can literally watch the video five to 10s and think,
oh yeah, this is the thing that I'm looking for, and then carry on watching it.
So they watch the rest of it. Um, and then you would go into kind of.
The introduction to the topic and the phenomena that you're discussing.
Um, then you come into your kind of main content where you're going into your kind of deprivation, the physics that's been applied.
The interview with this, um, with the scientific research, uh, but they get to tell you about what they do,
um, and how they've used it, and then you're kind of conclusions to tie it up.
So think about the teaser. It's just like the abstract.
When you write a report to a paper, you think, you know, if you were looking for papers on the internet,
you read the abstract like the first 200 words at the top of the paper, and it tells you what it is and it summarizes everything.
And generally if you if it's not what you're looking for, you just go on to a different paper.
So this is exactly the same, the kind of sort of the video version of an abstract.
So then you're gonna research into your topic.
So the people that you're interviewing aren't there to teach you about the information you're getting marked on,
how much research you've done, the investigation you've done into the topic.
So you need to go in prepared.
So it may be that you're going to search for that peer reviewed papers so you can find out what papers they've written on the topic.
And think I'm going to ask them specifically about these things.
Um, they might have web pages. So be careful if you take information from web pages.
If it's if it's the web pages of the researchers that you interview, that's functions.
They're web pages. But quite often some web pages aren't that accurate.
They could be showing you kind of derivations for some of the equations you're looking for.
And they're just inaccurate because they haven't been peer reviewed.
And you've got your kind of research is already lined up for you to be interviewed.
And then you might want to think about what's the impact of the research. Yeah.
So it's all very well kind of paid and looking at mummies and telling you how
cool it is to look at kind of biological tissues from thousands of years ago.
But what did that kind of what does that told us about? Well, so you might want to think about that when you read the papers.
What was the outcome and the the kind of the impact on society of this research?
And how did nonlinear optics or vibrational spectroscopy allow us to get to that?
So you'll be marked on the appropriateness of the material and the sources that you used.
Um. So preparation is really important.
So the key to this is preparation. So the people that you're interviewing are busy.
Yeah. So they're not going to be able to spend whole days kind of with you explaining stuff.
And and also if you kind of go for the interview and you're not prepared, they're not going to have time to come back and repeat it.
So preparation is everything. So we've got what are we in week seven now?
And you have to submit this in the last week of term, which is week 11.
So you've got four weeks to get it done. The first thing you need to set up.
Is to make email contact with the person you're interviewing and then get the date of the interview agreed in advance.
Yep. So don't expect them to be able to kind of do the interview at short notice.
They're really busy. You need to plan this in advance and make sure you're ready for it.
And in your kind of email exchanges with them, you need to set their expectations in what they are going to expect from the interview.
So you need to sort of tell them what the format of the interview is.
And if I sort of tell them how long it's going to, how much time you're going to need.
So it might be a 30 minute slot that you get with them, maybe an hour if you're lucky.
Um, you need to explain that you'll be sending them the questions in advance.
You get a much better interview if you.
They're not like politicians when you're trying to, like, cash them out by kind of asking them questions and not expecting.
They want to know what the questions are so they can prepare really good, concise answers to give you.
Um, it may also be that, you know, some some people might want to sort of give you some hints on what actually.
Yeah, that was really interesting that maybe you asked me about this because that's even more interesting kind of thing,
so that they expect that to happen.
Um, and email your questions in advance and also meet with me, um, fairly early on to kind of talk through how you're going to structure it.
I've got some, um, microphones that you can borrow and tripods and other things that you might need, um, to do your interview and you're recording.
So in terms of the video style, it's kind of up to you how you want to do your video,
and it's a kind of opportunity for you to kind of use your kind of creativity and think about how you might want to present the video.
I would certainly suggest before you start going, I mean, if you haven't already watched YouTube videos for scientific topics,
start googling some of them and thinking about the different styles.
Sort of. Do you want to do like a professional kind of BBC style?
Then what's the guy going? That sort of thing.
You could go for that sort of, um, video style.
Um, you could go for something a bit, so you could kind of that would be kind of directly talking to the audience.
So you have to like, uh, and introduce other people again, like the, like the TV or the,
like the guy on that sky at night that goes around and kind of interviews the people, what they could like the presenter.
So you could one of you could be like the presenter in the video. So that's the sort of common style.
Um, so your video could come as one of the sort of scenes of your video could be like you introducing
yourself as a presenter and then walking into the physics department and then knocking on the door,
you know, whoever you're interviewing, that sort of thing. And then you sit down, interview them.
Um, it could be it could be a straight kind of interview style.
You might want to include animations.
So last year we had some really nice videos that we created where people have got some really cool animations that kind of some of the topics.
Um, and you can also create is anyone kind of played around with using AI to produce animations?
So Pixar convicted a really nice job where they used AI, um,
to create this really professional looking animation of the topic they were talking about,
and they kind of did really professional kind of voice over it, and that worked really well.
Um, they had that kind of thing at the bottom to kind of say like Powered by.
So they were quite transparent that it was produced by AI.
Um, and then you might want to think about how are you going to do your scientific derivations.
You're going to kind of have the derivations appearing kind of professionally and typed in PowerPoint or whatever.
Or are you going to do like handwritten?
You could just have a piece of paper, like I do it on the present, where you kind of film yourself with your hand doing the writing.
There are lots of really cool ways you can do it. So here's some.
Here's some different examples. Um, for some reason, I can't.
I used to give you last year, I gave examples of the kind of three different sort of talking to the audience, the interview and the cartoon.
But now when I go to click on the links, it says the universities remove the privilege to have that facility.
So I don't know why I can't present. So I'll try and make room.
I can find my mouse pointer. It doesn't.
It won't be broken. And it says it hasn't. The universities. Taken away the privilege.
He doesn't let me take on a. When I put the, um, the YouTube, uh, references up there.
So if you want to watch these ones that exist as examples, you can find them on the internet, on this QR codes where you can do it that way as well.
Um, so here's one that I did a few years ago.
The interview type thing. Um. And that's the kind of example of a professional scientific animation.
So the links that work and it's a bit rubbish if I just kind of threw in my thumbs five minutes while you watch these things anyway,
so you can get them from the QR code. See examples of things that you might want to do.
So tell me. Um, I guess a few years ago.
People would be kind of using like massive 4K cameras like this to kind of go around and do the filming.
These things cost thousands of pounds. Um, it turns out nowadays you can achieve very good results just from your iPhone camera.
Um, which actually if you if you buy your camera phone outright,
it probably cost as much as one of these cameras because they're quite expensive if you buy them without a mobile phone contract.
So the the camera technology that you get in one of the modern iPhones is, is really, really good.
It has kind of motion side stabilization. Um, and you can do sometimes do 4K videos and get that really like professional quality cameras.
Um. Things you might that you need to consider.
Um.
If you wanted to introduce kind of slow motion into your video, which some people might do, like walking in on people walking to the lab and stuff.
Um, you need to increase the frames per second so that it doesn't look kind of weird when you when you slow it down when you're doing your interview.
You'll need to mount the camera on a tripod because you don't want it kind of moving around.
And it's quite difficult to hold your phone kind of steady for a long period of time.
So I've got I've got on a cheap tripod that I bought for last year, and it just clicked your phone in,
and you can clamp it and get your frame set up, and it works quite nicely.
Although the film sound microphone is really good.
You do have issues when you're filming people at a distance.
So if you're doing an interview and I say interviewing, one of you sat in front of me and over the sound for me would be straight from the iPhone.
The sound at a distance won't sound very good.
You might get background interference, or the person that you're interviewing will sound really quiet compared to your voice.
So you will want to use a microphone, particularly if you wanted to film in one of the research labs or outside where you've got background noise,
whether it's cars or the wind or not. The laser labs have kind of loud fans that make quite a lot of noise.
So you want like a lapel mike? Um, and we've got some of those that you can borrow.
You've got a smartphone, haven't you? Yeah. So if you're going for the kind of conventional interview, um,
it's recommended that you kind of try to frame your subject in this way, um, so that you kind of,
if you imagine this kind of drawing, kind of these grid lines across your phone,
so you've kind of split it up into thirds vertically and horizontally.
And most cameras I know on the iPhone you can set to have these grid lines appear.
Does anyone ever done that? People nodding.
So the idea is it helps you kind of frame and the kind of the classic technique that people do when they're interviewing.
And you might see this when you watch a news interview or any sort of interview, is that you place the person.
So if there's on the left hand side of the right field of view,
you would kind of frame it so that the person is kind of up at this point here to the side, off to one side,
and you arrange them so that they're kind of looking off to one side of the camera rather than just sat in the middle staring right at you,
because that looks a bit unnatural.
So this is apparently the kind of natural way to interview people, and it kind of gives you a much more professional, natural result.
And the technique that the interviewer uses is if the camera is kind of pointing at the person and they're looking across the interviewer,
it needs to be kind of stood over here somewhere so that the person is speaking at the interviewer, not at the camera.
Yeah, you can do a kind of straight at the camera shot, but that's a kind of different interviewing style.
And this tends to be the one that people would use professionally, um, in documentaries.
You will kind of follow that kind of idea and you can play around with the aspect.
So definitely when you're kind of preparing to interview your professional researcher, you can practice interviewing on each other.
Make sure you can get the tripod set up, check the sound works, check that you can connect the microphone to your camera.
That's the rule. They should work quite well, but it can be a bit fiddly sometimes.
And the last thing you want is to be messing around with kind of technical issues and batteries and things when you go in for your interview.
So as I say, kind of the idea that.
So smartphone microphones are good, but they're not very good if you've got background noise when you're filming at a distance.
Um, so I've got some lapel lights that you can put on to the person you're interviewing, and you'll get a much better professional sound quality.
Some of them are Bluetooth ones, um, and some of them are wired connections.
Um, and some of them enable you to do both. Um, so check that this work.
So don't just sort of take it for granted that you just turn up the interview take out box and use it,
because it can be quite fiddly to get these things to connect. Um, if you haven't done it before.
So make sure you do. Practice runs. Do a practice interview where one of the members of your group pretends to be the person you're interviewing.
You do the interviews you record and work out. If you've got if it all worked well.
Did you have all the information you need to edit it?
A trick that you can do if you don't have a, um, one of these posh kind of Bluetooth microphones is you can get the person you're interviewing to use,
you can give them one on somebody else's smartphone, or they can use their small phone,
and you get them to record a voice memo, putting the phone near them or in their pockets.
And to synchronise the sound, you get them to click their fingers right in front of their face,
so you can see them clicking and you can hear the clap, and then you can use that to synchronise the sound later when you come to do the editing.
But make sure you do the clicking, because that's like your point where you've got like a visual,
an audio like point where you can synchronize up the two.
Um, so if you do have problems with Bluetooth microphone, that's a good option to use.
Yeah. Any questions on the kind of technology you'll get so far?
So if you're recording, say, obviously we're not going to get paid and to come over here from Australia and whoever is not going to come from France.
Um, so if you are interviewing somebody.
So this is just me sat down on my computer this morning. I forgot that I wasn't particularly interesting face when I did it.
Um, but you'll need to record your team's, uh, meeting you saying so you click on those three dots.
Is anyone done this before? So you click on the three dots for, like, more.
And then you go to recording and then you start recording.
So you'll get a good video recording of the person.
But again the sound might not be very good because the sounds being kind of transmitted
over the internet and they might not have a very good camera on their laptop.
So again,
you can use that trick of getting them to record a voice memo on their smartphone and then doing the right thing to click to synchronized sound.
And then you can add the sound if you it might work fine.
But what you don't want to do is to do the recording and then watch it back and think, oh no, the sound is dreadful.
So if you get them to record that at the same time as the backup, you can use that if you need to, if it didn't work too well.
Any questions on the kind of teams and doing it remotely. And again, when you're in it, sort of emailing these guys, people to set their expectations,
just kind of ask them, would it be okay if they could record a voice memo on their small phone,
just so they have a chance to know they're going to have to do it,
and they can check they know how to do it and explain to get them to click that thing is to sync the sound.
And they could they email you the voice memo that they've created.
So yeah, that's that's apparently a good way to do it when you're interviewing somebody on line.
And then you might want to think how you'd use, you know, how are you going to set it up for your remote interview.
So these, these kind of remote interviews are done quite commonly.
Now, are you just going to have their face on the screen,
or you're going to have a look at another screen with your face on as you're doing the interview?
Are you going to be like a little face down in the bottom corner so it can kind of play around with this,
practicing it beforehand so that you can work out the best way to do it so that you can get the best results from it.
It could be that you want to be filmed on a camera while you're interviewing them, rather than just sat in front of a laptop.
And you can again synchronize the audio using a kind of finger click to to chat.
Then you can sync up all the sound. Does anyone played around with video editing?
Oh. People nodding. He's done editing.
Quite a few of you. So if you. Which software did you use?
If it's if you've got Apple products or an iPhone on Mac, you can I movie um, for free.
Um, and the kind of the free version for non Mac users or non iPhone users,
there's quite a good one called Adobe Express and you can download it with this QR code.
Um. Does anyone got a mac here?
How many people got PC and how many people got Macs? Mac users? And PC users.
Okay, so about 5050. So the Adobe one is just as good.
Um, the only benefit really, I mean, once you do it on your iPhone, it automatically appears in your kind of iMovie library.
Um. So. When you edit the movie.
This is like the really important because you're going to be kind of chatting with these people these 20 minutes, half an hour.
So the material that you create is going to be a lot longer than your video itself.
So you've only got five minutes for the whole video, and you might want to think how you're going to edit your video together.
And also you're going to be asking them questions in order for them to answer.
But you won't necessarily want your voice in the video.
You want the video. You want the interview to appear. Some people would like the interview to appear.
So it's just that person sat there talking about their research without listening to your questions.
Other people you might want to be to.
If you're the kind of presenter and you're in the video, you want your voice to appear, but either way, you're going to edit it out.
So there's a quite a clever and simple.
When I did this, I suddenly realized why these videos work the way they do.
You have this thing called a B roll. Does anyone come across this before?
People have done anything. So you have this kind of B-roll material, and that sets up when when you start playing with iMovie or Adobe Express,
you have this kind of track where you have your kind of main video at the bottom, and then you have your B-roll that you put at the top.
And the purpose of the B-roll is to allow you to cut the main footage.
Yeah. So this is one from. Actually this.
This was Eros filming me in the lap when we had our kind of training session.
So he was asking me questions about what I'm doing in the laser lab.
Um, and then we're kind of messing it up and having a conversation on and off.
And then so we want to cut bits out and then edit it into the bits to how we want to piece everything together.
But so Eros is asking me questions and I'm answering those questions.
And then you kind of piece it together.
So it sounds like I'm just keeping up sort of presentation on the topics and giving you all the bits of information you need.
But obviously if I just cut it, I'd physically like jump and the fit you would notice the cut.
You would notice the cut in the sound, but you would notice the cut in the video.
So the way you do this is to take some B-roll material.
Um, and the example that we were given to use is kind of.
So there's me sat at my computer and I'm kind of pretending to do some work on the computer, and then they'll be like,
that's a close up of my hand, moving the mouse and doing some typing, and me from a distance, and you kind of edit this stuff together.
Just say you've got some other stuff that you cut to to cover up the bit where you do that or cut in the audio.
It's that few people nodding. So you've probably done this before,
and this is how you end up with something that looks more professional than literally kind of the person just being cut and changing.
So it sounds sad when you put it together.
And we did this in like an off few hours.
And then I was like remarkably pleased with just how quickly you can get something that looks reasonably good.
Um, so that's me talking for a bit. Then we kind of cut to me walking into the department.
Um. And then that enables us to kind of cut the gap in the sounds.
Then you go back to the main film, and then you use these little B-roll bits to cut through in your text.
Yeah. Does everyone kind of fall in that?
So if you haven't done it before, it sounds a bit kind of. Strange, but the second you start playing with it, it's really intuitive to you to use.
You just load your main kind of roll into this box and that you can then insert kind of cuts.
You slide the length to where you want to cut it, and then you grab a piece of B roll and stick it down over the top.
Any questions on the editing? Um.
Okay, so you said if you go if you're a mac user, you'll have iMovie already on your phone and on your Mac.
You can do the whole thing on your phone if you've got an iPhone. Um, and if you've got a mac, it's easier to do it because you do like mouse stuff.
Um, alternatively, you can download this free video make up.
This website I've put up here. Or you can Google other ones.
I'm sure there are three ones that you get the other sorts of material you might want to put in the video.
We've got university that sounds a bit posh, like university branded assets, but that's like posh corporate speak.
The pictures and movies that the university got on the website.
Um, so we've got logos, um, so you can kind of have a logo on stuff your video,
you might have a PowerPoint introduction to your video with the title and stuff.
You can put the university logo on, um, makes it a very professional, um,
you can have backgrounds that people have behind them when they're doing that kind of teams, you know, video presentation.
And the other really cool thing we've got, all they've got on the web page is drone footage.
So there's like the drone kind of flying around over the university campus and all this stuff
that they these videos they've got made quite good kind of B-roll stuff that you can put in.
So I think one of the student groups last year did a really good job where they kind of introduced one of the topics,
um, and it was like microplastics that we did some imaging with.
And they started off with like B-roll movie of like plastic junk floating around in the sea.
And then they kind of interview someone and then they kind of cut to the drone kind of following it, flying over the university campus.
So the guy doing the talking kind of said researchers at the University of Exeter doing this.
And that kind of was a nice segue way into the university. So the campus, um.
But. So, yeah, you use the, um, university branded assets.
I put the QR code so you can find out where to get the stuff.
So you've got various locations that you might want to use.
So if obviously if you're, um, interviewing somebody over teams,
then you might want to ask them if they're able to sort of put their laptop in their lab, or do they just want to sit in their office and do.
It's probably easier for them to do it kind of sat at their computer desk where the camera's already set up.
Um, but you may also want to include kind of images and videos of instruments that we've got here to make the video more interesting.
Um, we've got the campus. So people have been put into view around the campus or taking film bits of the campus to use.
Is that, um, that B-roll?
So you might want to interview PhD students, uh, yourselves might appear in the video as kind of,
you know, if you're like the TV presenter type person, you would be in the video.
Anyone that you do include, um, in the video.
Um, if you wanted to put it online, you would have to get like a declaration from that person to say that they're happy to have that video online.
Is anyone keen to share their videos? So last year I participated on social media and I said on LinkedIn.
So I put some examples up of the videos that the best, like some of the really good politicians did last year.
Oh, and the ones that actually great me to put them on online as well.
Um, so there are some examples on LinkedIn. Um, some, some ones that particularly good.
So if you do some really good ones, it would be nice if you could give your consent to me to put them on, on, on LinkedIn.
And loads of people liked it and said like, what a great example it was.
The research led teaching and it got like, it's a really nice comments and stuff.
Um, so yeah, that that's that's something that 100 keen to do.
So obviously you're going to have fun doing this and it's a really good interactive exercise.
But you want to get Mark.
Um, so make sure you read the marking criteria carefully so you can see the best video in the world with like car chases and explosions.
But if you didn't hit all the criteria, then you're not going to get the best thing about the maximum mark that you could get.
Um, so we've got 25% of the block on coverage.
So if you've got all the bits that you are kind of asked to put into your assessment,
it last about five minutes and I'll give you a lot of leeway on that.
50% to fair goes on to the content. So the material that you've chosen, the scientific scientific accuracy and the selection of materials,
and then 25% on the kind of the presentation skills,
the coherence and sequencing, how good it looks, your video editing skill look nice and professional.
Did you use the night B-roll to cover up the edits and cuts in the in the video, and how engaging and interesting the video is to watch?
So as always, make sure you read the marking criteria carefully because that's what you're going to be marked against.
So yeah. To summarize it's it's a group. It's a it's a group task.
Um, so you all get the same mark within your group.
Yeah. So once the groups have been assigned.
I put your groups into a spreadsheet and then tell the hub team, and then you get kind of your group number set up.
I'll let you know what that is. And then you submit it by Ellie.
You only need to submit one submission group and you all get the same mark.
How great. Yeah. And the deadline for the submission is the 230 on Friday.
We can have one. So the last week term. And obviously it's it should be fun.
So it's like an opportunity for you to kind of really kind of explore your creative talents to make an interesting scientific video,
um, and hopefully learn some interesting stuff. So all of the topics will require like a derivation from the lecture course.
So it could be Roman scattering, infrared spectroscopy, some of the nonlinear optical techniques that we're talking about.
And it's up to you to pick the one that you want to put into your, um, video.
All of the derivations that you'll need to use. I've already even seen them.
So this is why I wait until week seven to set you this, because you've now got all of the derivations in the lecture slides.
You've seen me do it by hand on the visualizer, and you've got those like PDFs of my handwriting.
So you know what the maths is that you need to present.
And it's all about how you it's all about you explaining it to somebody else and talking through that derivation so that they can understand it,
and then showing them how that piece of maths and science is being used in the real world for scientific research.
Any questions? Not one single question.
Are you excited? As exciting as you guys go.
So don't forget like, kind of.
So as soon as your like, your topic has been assigned, get in touch with the person that you're going to be interviewing.
And if they're really busy particularly Nick's really, really busy because he's like deputy pro-vice-chancellor of our faculty.
So he's very busy, but he's also really keen and wants to engage in this.
So he he saw that the videos that I put on LinkedIn last year was like really impressed by the quality of them.
So I think that's why he's keen to get involved this year. Um, but yeah,
make sure you get in touch with that person straight away so that you can set up a time that you're going to do it and start engaging with them,
telling them what questions you're going to do, asking them if there are any specific papers you should read,
or they could recommend that they've written, um, come in like we all have a meeting with each group where you can talk through, you know,
the plans, and I can help you get hold of the equipment that you need or access to any of the labs if you wanted to film in the labs.
Um. And I.
I was hoping to share some of the videos from last year.
Um, they're on LinkedIn. If I post like the links.
Did you get the links to them when I sent the email out?
Did they work? I think when I sent an email to say, this is like heads up gets up into groups of people, didn't I put like three links in the videos?
Did anyone open the email? So there should have been some links in there, but I did the links from LinkedIn,
but I wasn't sure if you needed to be like, have a LinkedIn account for the links to work.
You see what I mean? So if that doesn't work, let me know and I'll share them in some other way.
But yeah, look at the video examples that I sent.
Let me just check that. Not sure if it was quite late wasn't it.
And it turns out I didn't put the links in the email.
So I'll send you an email with some links in the email for how to access videos that you can watch.
Um, does anyone know if the links from LinkedIn will work if you're not?
No. Got an account on LinkedIn? I'll send.
I'll send it out written. And then if somebody goes, sorry, they didn't work.
I'll then come up with some other way to schedule. So any questions?
No. Okay. So all those.
If you haven't already, is everyone who wants to be in a group.
Email me that you want to be in a group. Was there any one that.
Anyone? So is anyone the most emailed every email via. So that means that I'll just assign.
Yeah. So you. So you want to be in a group? Uh, partner.
So you got you got one over one personal. When you did, you remember that?
You know, I know. So. So yeah. Email me guys straight away.
Yeah. And then everyone else I'll just assign into groups accordingly.
Um, and then and sends you your kind of topic that we're going to be doing and the contact details the person that you're interviewing.
Okay. So see you all on Monday when we're back from today.
Your. Sorry.
Sorry. I'm sorry.
Yeah. I was.
Just. So excited about.
This. You don't. Have.
To worry. Because I think like.
I said I don't remember.
It was. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah I was I was.
Supposed. To say.
You know, but I was like okay, so.
But yeah. Oh yeah. We should email it to me.
And that's just like all the people that have this on my.
Birthday saying, hey, you guys can. To match up with two other people that have a girl group.
So if you send me an email, I'll just know that you're the two natural sciences.
I think that's what we realized. Just realizing the today.
Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Um. Yeah.
I know I had a good time.
So did you do this scam? Yeah.
Yeah, that's basically the same. But Eugene Wallace. And so when he was, like, genuinely treated very first actually doing just as the other.
Yeah. I think yesterday when he's kind of come visit, I do like I know, I mean like little things like that's why I'm here, you know I.