I hope that my friends just. As.
Soon as I. Get some sleep.
I don't want to go back. You know, it's nice to.
See you earlier. I was. Like you.
Know, I did some research, so you should see.
If it's against the college.
I didn't know it's a good thing.
I'm sorry. It's okay. I.
Would like to invite you to.
You've got an. Interesting time as it is now.
I really. Don't.
Know anything. About that.
Yeah. So. I'm just going to go home.
Okay. How did the midterms go last week? Yeah, a few people see if it's open and you all appreciate.
Take the week off. Go to the modules, focus on the midterms.
Um, so I have to mention that those that material will replace in May.
So we're talking isomorphism sessions in May so that you can kind of remind yourself focus groups and stuff.
Okay. Through the practice of the practice questions I'm through some past exam.
This is a kind of a fishing session for you. So just in case you haven't seen, there are past papers on the early page.
And some of those papers have like the the marking scheme and other solutions on that as well.
So use them because it really, really helps to go through the past papers.
Do you all do past papers and find them really useful.
Yeah. And if you'll tutor's going through Paul's papers with you and talk to you about how exam papers are structured.
Yeah. So you're aware there's some like easier questions and some harder questions on exam paper.
So the easier questions are there to kind of for people that are going to get ask more questions,
get harder and harder to kind of force people out into the different grade boundaries.
So knowing that helps you do a good job in the exam paper because, you know, some of those questions are going to be quite easy and quick to get,
but you want to make sure you get all those marks and then don't be put off by some of the tougher questions, because that that's a really stretch.
Okay. Um, and you also my email said on Friday about the group assessment.
Yeah. So everyone looking forward to the group assessment. Yeah.
So as a kind of science communication exercise, as I said in the introductory lecture this year.
I've got some some of my colleagues from around the world that are going to kind of take part.
So you can interview them to ask them about that. Uh, to what they're doing in kind of nonlinear optics and by photonics.
Um, so tomorrow I'll kind of go through how the assessment structured, um,
give you some kind of pointers on how to make the videos and things that you can do and how to structure the video,
how to edit it, and those sorts of ideas.
Um, and obviously the international people, we're not actually going to get them over here, but for you guys in Australia.
So you're going to be interviewing them, um, for teams. Um, so there are a couple of kind of pointers for how to do a team's video.
I think the sound is one of the, um, trickiest things to get right.
So I was I'm expecting some tomorrow. One one thing that you can do is to get them to record their voice.
A voice memo on their phone. Like getting the phone close to them.
Um, and then they send that to you, and you synchronize it up when you do the editing.
So anyone kind of an expert or already playing around with video editing?
You no doing any sort of TikTok videos or. YouTube videos.
Well so this anyway, so this is to kind of get you into the idea of science communication because it's really important.
Is anyone thinking about doing science communication? Yes.
So he's got a sort of career in its own right.
Now there are people kind of starting up businesses in marketing and things to kind of market science and communicate science and teach science.
But anyway, as part of the lecture courses,
it's normally really good fun and you'll get to meet some people actually using nonlinear optics and Brahmins getting for example,
in the in their research. Okay, so we're now on two laser pulses.
So you'll also be quite pleased to hear that we're kind of over the kind of crux of the lecture course.
Now, we've done most of the really, you know, the tricky stuff,
the stuff on the nonlinear light matter interactions when we calculate the susceptibilities and there's like lots of maths.
Nothing particularly challenging, but just a lot writing and steps to get through the phase matching.
Did everyone understand the phase matching side of things? And we did a few derivations there.
Yeah. So make sure make sure you you're able to do that for the exam.
But now we're kind of now putting it all back together and starting to put
all the little bits that we've learned to see how we can use this in imaging.
So today we're going to be looking at laser pulses. Why we need the laser pulses.
Properties of these laser pulses. And then we're going to go through some relatively straightforward calculations to show you how you can.
Calculate different properties of laser pulses and understand how the different specifications of
the laser pulses affects the intensity of the light and the different applications that we can use.
So you all remember this slide? Yeah.
So this kind of this is kind of right at the kind of the heart of nonlinear optics when you're driving your charges close to the equilibrium position.
You're just shaking the electrons backwards and forwards. And they're seeing this linear or parabolic potential.
If you can drive a bit harder or apply a higher field, then they start to experience this nonlinear perturbation to the restoring force.
And you need to hit quite high peak intensities or field intensities in order to pull the electrons this far away from the equilibrium position.
And as we discussed, um, right at the very start,
you start to see this non-linearity when you're close to literally pulling the electrons away from the atoms that, that orbiting attracted to.
And this kind of as the back of an envelope calculation. This occurs at the atomic field strength.
So this is just a ballpark number.
If you wanted to kind of estimate how hard what sort of field you have to apply to start seeing significant non-linearities.
And it's at the atomic of the order of the atomic field strength,
where you're almost pulling the electrons away from their from the atoms that they're attracted to.
And I think you'll remember that we calculated this figure.
Yep. And you can see where that comes from. Yeah. So we're going to start looking at lasers today.
Um, so we've already talked about what makes them special for science experiments.
So we've got coherence both spatially and temporally.
So what's the difference in spatial and temporal coherence. So what does coherence mean in terms of light?
Yep. Every phase. Yeah.
So you've got all your kind of photons producing electric fields in phase with each other, and this means all adds up in phase.
This is part of the property of the laser emission.
And if we're talking about spatial coherence, we mean across the kind of wavefront across our laser beam everything is oscillating in phase.
And what about in time? That just means, as we kind of look at how the waves propagate in time or in space,
in the direction of propagation, everything's oscillating in phase.
Yeah. So that's a really unique property of the laser beam and the fact that everything's oscillating in phase.
What does that mean for that kind of. Conditions for it to oscillate in phase.
So this space temporal coherence that we have.
So if it's all oscillating in space, all has to have the same frequency, doesn't it?
So we have a well-defined narrow line width in laser emission.
Um, and that's the property of coherence.
So we're going to look at what happens when we start to make pulses and how that affects the line width of our laser beam.
Um, that means they're very directional. So you can keep them nicely, very well collimated.
So the thing that makes things diverge is the fact that you don't have that spatial coherence across your kind of optical, um, your laser spot.
So that that enables us to make the thing very directional.
We can encrypt, we can hit very, very high intensities.
And this is why we need them for nonlinear optics.
We've already talked about this kind of having to hit almost the atomic field strength in in our electromagnetic field.
We need very intense laser beams to do this in practice.
And, and I kind of and as an aside, when we start squeezing things down into tiny pulses,
it also gives us the ability to have very, very good time resolution.
So lasers, the kind of lasers that you would have used in your kind of undergraduate lab is least in the undergraduate labs.
Yeah. There's little tiny ones mounted on these kind of optical slidey things.
They'll be c w laser. So continuous wave. So they're not pulsed at very narrow line width.
And it's just constant beyond. We're now going to be looking at pulsed emission.
What happens when we start producing very short pulses of light.
So we're effectively turning the laser on and off so that we can punch up all that power into short bursts of light that come out with the laser.
So to kind of give you some, some put things on a time scale.
So. This is a kind of chart. Different time scales, the different prefixes in front of the time.
So we've got seconds. So seconds is about the fastest thing that you can resolve with the human eye.
Yeah. So anything happening? Faster than a few fractions of a second.
You just can't see. And, um, to sort of give you.
To put this in perspective, what's the what's the refresh rate of your television or your computer screen at home, like a standard computer screen.
How many frames per second? 60.
Yeah. So your standard TV monitor, unless you've got, like, one of those really,
like, expensive gaming GPUs that allows you to do like 150 frames per second.
So 60 frames per second is a kind of standard video.
So and when you look at that with your eye you can't see the frames.
It just looks like a continuous movie because you don't have the kind of resolution to do that.
So anything sort of short of like a 10th of a second,
your eye just doesn't see it because of the way your life looks and how it averages the signal over time to produce the signal you perceive,
and then move down to milliseconds. So 1,000th of a second.
So anyone familiar with this? Hate to have to go on a horse.
Now. It's not the first video ever recorded.
Um, there was a some like there's some historic event that happens in some gentlemen's drinking club where they were having,
like a discussion and a wager about an argument over whether all four of the horses feet leave the ground while it's running.
And this kind of sets off this big kind of. Scientific exploration, and at the time all they had was kind of standard cameras.
They didn't really have motion that they can take films.
And even if you could take, I think they just have kind of weird, kind of like old fashioned cinema films, but that the speed was very, very slow.
Um, so this guy set up this I mean, at the time, 100 years ago, he was like really famous.
And it was the first kind of high speed photography where he set up a lot of, like,
still frame cameras, um, a lot of track, and then had, like, pressure sensors.
So as the horse ran along it set of all the different cameras, um, and he was able to show that at some point during the galloping.
So like if the horse's feet were above the ground.
But that was like a groundbreaking, um, thing hundreds of years ago.
And then we get down to microseconds, which is ten to that. How many minuses?
Yeah, ten to the minus six. So this would be your kind of high speed photography with a modern high speed camera.
So this is a bullet going through an apple to go very, very high speed camera.
And that's the kind of limit of how fast you can film things.
Uh, what about this 110 to the West Coast?
Nanoseconds. Yeah, ten to the minus nine.
Um, so in terms of the inverse here, we're looking at kind of the gigahertz range.
So this is a kind of computer chip running at the gigahertz.
But calculations per second would put you in the gigahertz.
And then what have we got here down the peak to seconds. What's that picture showing?
Relevant to the electricals. So here these are kind of tiny pictures seen.
But this needs a kind of molecular vibrations. So we've got the molecular polarizations occurring on the picosecond time scale.
And this is when we looked at kind of Raman scattering and infrared scattering.
And that's what gives us the line with the vibrational absorption.
And then when we get down to a few femtoseconds or sorry below femtoseconds then we've got kind of atomic polarization.
So exciting electrons to excited states.
And that's pretty much as fast as you can make anything happen. Yeah.
Um, and then did you see the somebody got the Nobel Peace Prize for the Attosecond laser a few years ago?
So somebody developed laser pulses that could be shorter than or shorter than the timescale the electron transitions have,
and that allow people to actually measure the time dynamics of electron absorption by producing these ridiculously short attosecond pulses.
So that's just to kind of put us into the kind of timescale we've looked at.
The length, scale kind of help them scale over microns, nanometers.
And so but this is looking backwards, looking into smaller and smaller time divisions.
So if we kind of do our recap back to the start of the lecture course,
we know that we need to produce electric fields of the order of five to the 11V/m.
Now we're going to look at kind of putting this into context of the sorts of intensities that you would need to produce that,
and to start thinking about what sorts of light sources, what sort of laser you would need to generate that field strength.
So this was kind of something you learned in electromagnetism last term?
Um, is it a red box because you want to remember it?
What does this equation allow us to calculate? Even say words like Stephen.
So when you when you studied this in electromagnetism with Matthew, you learnt about this thing called the Poynting vector, which kind of got no name.
So in terms of the physical context, it allows you to calculate the intensity.
Of a light beam in terms of its electric field.
Yeah. And intensity scales with electric field squared.
So what we're going to do is we're going to use this equation that we've got this
half times the speed of light times it's item naught times the field squared.
And then we can put our atomic field strength in.
And we can calculate the rough estimate of the type of laser that we need to generate this sort of field.
So we'll start with the equation that Matthew gave you.
So the average intensity is four times the speed of light times Simon naught times the field squared.
Is that clear. Click and we'll see that it's a big enough. So we already calculated that the atomic field strength is five times ten.
To the 11. Volts per meter.
So all we need to do is just put those numbers into that equation and see what we get.
Speed of light times. So I will not.
Times. The atomic field strength.
Squares, and you can see that this number is going to be big because tend to be every square is going to be big.
So. The numbers into our calculator.
Do a kind of sanity check with our unit. So we've got speed of light as in meters per second and electric field trips are getting so no constant.
Electric field squares. And that gives us reasons.
Just a second. Reach out to this guy who just wants.
Which is what we expect for intensity. So power per area, that's what we mean by intensity.
That's three times ten to the 20 bits per square metre.
That's a lot. That's a lot of power. Yeah.
So if you think about these bolts, it's got a not now because they did a light bulb in a ceiling LED light maybe 20V ten watts.
So this is a huge amount of power. So how could we achieve that intensity.
With a lower powered laser. What things can we do? So we've got watts per meter squared.
What can we do to increase the intensity? And we're working in a microscope so we can focus it down to a smaller spot.
So if we squeezed the light spatially.
So if we take it out and focus it to a one micron spot, which is a pretty small spot to focus it down to, not quite as small as we can do.
So the area of a one micron spot is going to be ten to the 12, ten to the minus six square 10th, -12m.
So that would be the average have three times ten. Eight walks, which is huge, isn't it?
If we went even smaller than that, if we said, okay, let's squeeze it.
We must the limit that we could do so if we had, like a green laser, we might be able to focus it down to 500 nanometers.
Yeah, so that would be 25.
The -30m. Let.
That would require power, 75MW.
So focusing it down to the smallest diffraction limited scope that we could do for green light just as the ballpark.
You can see you kind of need a power station to generate the size of a laser.
We're talking huge, huge, pulsed, huge laser energies.
It's probably more so than that, but I guess it's the petaflop laser facilities where people are trying to do fusion.
The clearly, if you want to image something and understand its chemical properties,
sticking it under that sort of laser intensity is not what you want to do, because there will be nothing left.
Yeah, so it's just not achievable under normal kind of considerations.
So we can't squeeze it any more spatially than the diffraction limit.
So the only other property that we have is to squeeze it in time.
So our intensity is in meters per square meter.
So we've kind of hit the diffraction limit by focusing it down to 500 nanometers.
If we wanted to squeeze it any more to get the intensity higher we have to squeeze it in time.
So what's our joules per second?
So we have the possibility to squeeze it temporarily as well as spatially to get that high intensity.
And that's what we're going to look at in a second. If I'm following this.
Yeah. So it's kind of analogous to kind of pressure if you take somebody of the same weight.
So I don't know how have you I'm not gonna tell you my weight, but I'm wearing like big boots.
If I was to weigh the same and stand on the kind of wet sand with my boots on,
you could see that the pressure is a function of the area of my footprint.
If I was then to get some really spiky shoes like this. High heeled shoes and oh, my weight on the heel.
You can see that we can achieve a much greater pressure by focusing my weight into that really small area.
So it's very, very analogous. If we take light pulses, if we look at kind of bunching our photons up in time to peak the intensity,
if this is our broad pulse, the energy of that pulse is the area under the curve.
Yeah. And the intensity is on the y axis.
If I squeeze that all those photons into a much shorter time,
the area underneath the curve has to stay the same, which means the intensity has to go up.
Yeah. And the key to nonlinear optics is that the nonlinear processes scale with intensity.
No average power. Yeah. So we can we can keep the average power the same and get very high intensities and hit these nonlinear,
these nonlinear interactions because they scale with intensity squared.
Not with average power. Yeah. So this is where ultrafast lasers come in.
So this is a picture of one we've got in our lab down the corridor.
This is a. Ring laser.
This is an optical parametric oscillator being pumped by green pump light.
We'll talk about this in a few lectures time.
Um, but the the property of this laser is that it has a cavity that enables pulses to travel around the cavity,
and only the pulses get amplified within the laser. We'll look at how they work in a couple of lectures time.
But now we're just going to look at the different, um, properties of these lasers.
So when you get very short pulses you can measure very fast processes.
And that's kind of something that comes for free when you're working with these pulsed lasers.
Um, and the bit that we're interested in is that you can have very high peak intensities at moderate average powers.
So if you if you look at the average power, it's the area under the curve.
So this dotted line is plotting the at the time average power.
You can keep that relatively low whilst achieving very high peak intensities.
Yeah. So remember the average power or the power. The energy is the area under the pulses.
It's the intensity that we're interested in. And that's where the peak is.
And another kind of consideration. Is the bandwidth of each of these parts.
So we're going to look at the implications of squeezing light into short pulses of what effect that has on its bandwidth.
And that becomes important when you want to look at spectroscopy and to resolve nonlinear interactions as a function of frequency or wavelength,
that they take this. So there's a couple of equations that you need to remember to do these calculations.
So. That's my point.
So you got the average power output. So this is the time average power of the laser.
So the area under this dotted line we've got the pulse width which is determined by the properties of the laser cavity.
And that's the full width half maximum in time of these pulses.
And it's the full width half maximum of the intensity of the pulses.
And we'll look at the difference between intensity and amplitude later.
But the intensity is the thing that you measure in an experiment when you measure the light intensity light onto a photo detector.
You're measuring the intensity of the photons, and it's the full width half maximum which we used to find the pulse width.
And then the other property that we define is the repetition rate.
So how many pulses per second the laser cavity produces.
And again this is controlled by the physical makeup of how you designed your laser cavity the length of the laser cavity.
And in practice it's the round path length of your photons traveling at the speed of light.
You convert that into meters. And that's that, that that controls that reference.
So there are three. Equations that allow us to calculate everything we need one for the pulse energy, one for the peak power among the peak intensity.
There in a red box. What does that mean? What do I have a red box.
If you need to remember it. Yep. So this isn't an equation you'll get given.
So you need to remember these ones. But actually if you I've written them out in words.
Because if you look at each of these equations you can see they're pretty self-explanatory, aren't they?
So you've got the pulse energy. So that's the energy of each house.
So you calculate that by dividing the average power by the number of pulses per second.
Yeah. And that's just telling you the amount of energy in each pulse.
Yeah. It's pretty pretty straightforward. And then you've got your peak power.
So once you've calculated the energy of each pulse you just divide that by the pulse width.
Yeah. That gives you the power the peak power of each pulse.
And then you've got your peak intensity. And that's just your peak power divided by the area that you focus on to.
So, you know you need to kind of remember these equations. You can pretty much work them out for yourself.
Yeah. Kind of quite self-explanatory. So let's look at a couple of examples.
So these are the sorts of questions that we get asked.
So this is really just a demonstration to show you kind of difference or the importance of the rest right.
So we've got two lasers and you're being asked to calculate the peak, the pulse energy, the peak power of two different lasers.
They each have an average power output of ten minute volts.
So the average power is the same.
Yeah, but the only difference is they both produce pulses where the pulse width is 100 femtoseconds.
The difference between the two systems. So this one's used for nonlinear optical microscopy.
And it has a repetition rate of 80 mega hertz.
So 80 times ten to the six pulses per second.
Whereas another laser producing the same average power and the same pulse width.
Pulse width has a repetition rate of one kilohertz.
So it's producing a thousand pulses a second. So the properties of these two lasers are very different.
So it's a kind of the analogy of like somebody firing a machine gun where you've got like the bullets coming out really,
really quickly like many bullets per minute. But each bullet is very light compared to a tank which fires the same amount of blood.
The all in one gun. Yeah. So we can do like a calculation just just to show what kind of difference or the importance of the repetition.
Right. So. So let's first calculate the 80MHz.
That we've got the pulse energy. So that's the average power divided by the bat rate.
Ten times ten to the minus three.
It's 18MHz.
That gives us 1.1 to 5 times ten to the minus nine joules.
10.125. Nanotubes.
Tiny amount of energy per pulse. And we can look at the peak power.
Average divided by rat rate. So how the county.
Myself. So the pulse energy. My body comes with.
We take our pulse energy that we just calculated. I'd like the pulse rate, which is 100 10s plus 15 joules per second.
That gives us one point to lie.
It was? Yes. So for an average power of ten minute volts, you can see that we can get really high peak powers.
Okay. So 1.25kW is a lot.
Yeah. When you're doing it for a very short amount of time. But we're still hitting that really high peak intensity.
And our non-linear processes scale with intensity not the average power.
And that's the key to it. So now let's compare that to our one kilohertz laser system.
So we got the pulse energy. Once again, it's average.
If I buy the battery. Again, it's still ten volts.
This time we're dividing by one kilohertz.
That gives us ten to the minus seven jewels.
You can see much higher. Of sandwiches and then at peak power.
Maybe the pulse energy. With.
A cold sweat is before. This time.
Do you see me achieving much, much higher powers by squeezing the light pulses,
which are much bigger because we're only producing thousands of times a second?
Yep. So two very similar lasers in terms of their average power and pulse width.
But the repetition rate is very different. Yeah. So one laser was spitting out pulse 80MHz.
Yeah. So 80 million pulses per second.
Whereas the other one is just producing 1000 pulse for seconds.
Yeah. So it's analogous to this kind of machine gun rattling out tiny pieces of land really quickly compared to a tank,
which is like blasting out massive chunks of a much lower time interval.
So the next thing we're going to look at just for those two laser systems is the effect of wrap rate on the time between the pulses.
So it's very straightforward.
I haven't put this in a red box because this is just like distance over time calculation show that you'd be able to do this.
So we know what the speed of light is. We know what the time between the pulses is.
So it's very easy to calculate the distance between them.
So back to our hair of the machine gun versus the tank.
So we know the distance is equal to the speed of light times time.
So for the 80MHz laser D is equal to the speed of light.
I didn't buy the rent parade. So one over the back rate gives us time between the pulses.
That comes out at 3.75m between each pulse.
And this is something that you can physically observe when you're setting up the laser pulses on your optical bench,
and you have a laser with a repetition rate of 80MHz.
One of the things that will come with when we get onto the optical microscopy later,
you'll I'll explain some of these experiments that we do require two different colors of light to mix together to give us optical contrast.
So you have to take two laser beams of two different frequencies or two different colors, and you have to overlap them.
So to overlap them, you have to physically get the two laser spots or laser beams lying on top of each other.
But when you deal with pulsed lasers, the pulses have to arrive at the same time.
So you have to temporally overlap the pulses.
And to do that, you send your two laser beams around the optical table, and then you put in a delay stage like a mirror,
that you can move backwards and forwards to change the optical path length of one film over the other.
And you physically measure that at 80MHz, they need to be four meters apart between subsequent pulses.
So it's quite a long distance, four meters obviously, because like so quick, even a really, really small amount of time.
But each one over 80MHz gives you quite a long distance.
And if you do the same calculation. The one kilohertz.
There is a system. Same speed of light. This time.
Kilohertz and you see that you get something like 300km.
So not so easy. Do an optical patch. You just can't do it.
But what's really cool about this, the one of the.
So working with the 80MHz systems,
if you want to measure time because you've got this spatial domain that you can control distance over which the laser pulses have moved,
you can you can control the time in which the pulses arrive.
Very, very precisely.
So you've got your 100 femtosecond pulses only traveling at the same speed of light, because that's the speed that the light travels at.
And by moving the delay states backwards and forwards by a few millimeters, you have like exquisite control over the timescale.
You can get down to sub femtosecond timescales by traffic, by moving the states backwards and forwards at a few microns.
So microns is something that you can adjust by hand. So you've got kind of micron precision very easily with a turning screw.
And then if you use the speed of light you can actually see you can convert that tiny distance into really, really small amounts of time.
So that's one of the advantages of ultrafast laser pulses.
So the next thing we're going to look at is a kind of skipped, say,
kind of the consequence of squeezing the light into short pulses is that it has an effect on the band width.
And you did some calculations like this in quantum mechanics last term with Claire.
I think it's one of the things you did in the first couple of weeks when you went to conservative principle.
So we'll start by treating this using the uncertainty principle.
But in a in a couple of slides time, we can see that there's a much more accurate way to do this.
So you know that the this version of the uncertainty principle says that you can if you know the energy really, really precisely.
There's a limit to which you can know the time.
And likewise, if you know the time that something happens really precisely, there's an uncertainty in the energy.
So this is exactly what happens with our photons in the light pulses.
If we if we combine them into really short pulses, the uncertainty in the time suddenly got very, very small.
And that means, you know, the energy shoots up. Yep.
And this is exactly what we do when we squeeze them into short pulses.
We know that the intensity of the area under the pulse has to stay the same.
So we hit kind of high peak intensities. This energy tells us that by squeezing the light into these short pulses,
there has to be uncertainty in the energy of the photons, which means there has to be a broader width of photon energies.
And the photon energies is associated with the wavelength.
So we get a broadening in the wavelength of our laser pulses simply by squeezing them into short pulses.
And the uncertainty principle shows us that this is a way we can kind of estimate this.
And so if we take two pulses, one which is broad in time, you can see that the wavelength bandwidth gets narrower.
And likewise if we take shorter pulses in time it has a broader range of frequencies within it because of the uncertainty principle.
So we can do a quick calculation.
So we're asked to compare the bandwidth of a one picosecond pulse created well centered 800 nanometers compared to pulses of the same.
Width in time centered at 1600 nanometers.
So we start with the uncertainty principle. One second.
Is it you? Nanometres.
We start with the uncertainty principle. Jesus five times ten.
11. That's 500.
Gigahertz of bandwidth. And that's expressing the bandwidth of our pulses in terms of frequency.
Yeah, but we don't like to work with frequency.
We want to know how that frequency converts into wavelength, because it's the wavelength that we measure when we're dealing with the pulses of light.
So you have your laser beam, you're shining into a spectrometer,
and you want to look at the bandwidth of the different wavelengths that you've got within that house.
And can anyone remember why that's important to compare it for two different central wavelengths.
You have thought that if you convert frequency of width and frequency into wavelength,
it will be the same for both those pulses which you know, think.
That would be your kind of intuitive thought to go to that we'd be wrong if we took that approach.
Because if you remember. The relationship.
Between wavelength and frequency is an area.
So if we look at the relationship between frequency and wavelength, we can see their inverse inversely proportional.
Let's see the speed of light and constant proportionality. And that introduces a problem because I'm just converting frequency to wavelengths
in the same way because they don't mean anything proportional to each other.
So we have to differentiate. So we look at the rate of change of frequency as a function of wavelength as opposed to one over lambda.
So we get minus c. Wavelength squared.
Yeah. So you have to remember that. So if you then want to calculate lambda.
You can see you've got lambda squared in there. Yeah.
So the bandwidth in wavelength is proportional to the central wavelength squared times the bandwidth in frequency.
And it's a really kind of conventional error for everyone to forget about doing that when you're doing an exam question.
So let's look at 800 nanometers.
So I would band with wavelength, because then going to be 800 times ten times nine squared times the frequency bandwidth,
which was 500GHz, or the speed of light.
That comes out at one nanometer. Wavelength is a bandwidth of one nanometer.
If we took a similar laser that had essential wavelength of 1600 nanometers, six voice essential wavelengths put the same thing, the same calculation.
I tried to kick it a variable speed. Right?
Comes out at 4.3 nanometres, so we need more than four times the bandwidth in wavelength to produce those short pulses.
And later, towards the end of this exercise, will actually see physically where that comes from.
When we start to look at how the pulses are produced within the laser cavity.
So the uncertainty principle enables us to kind of.
It is a rough estimate of bandwidth in terms of in terms of wavelength.
And as we're going to see in a few slides time, we can then be a bit more precise and even a bit more.
So I still be calculating precisely the range of wavelengths required to create a pulse.
And the reason that you mean, obviously the uncertainty principle is true and correct,
but we're actually going to look at the physical properties of the laser cavity
and why you need all those different bandwidths to construct the pulses.
So the kind of if we have to take a look at our optical pulses and kind of mathematically formalize how we would write them out,
we can write out the electric field in terms of the intensity as a function of time.
So that's the envelope over which the kind of that sits over our electric field.
And then we have the oscillating term which tells us how the field is oscillating within those pulses.
And the key function here we're looking at is is this all is a function of time.
So how the phase of that pulse changes as a function of time.
So the intensity of the square root of the intensity tells us the amplitude of the pulse, like the envelope that sits over our pulse.
And then this blue term phi as a function of time that tells us how the color of the pulse evolves in time.
So if we've got the fact that we have a phase change across this pulse, what that's going to me is the frequency within the pulse is changing.
And that's exactly what happens in real life policies when they travel through a media that has dispersion.
So what did we say about, well, what do we mean by dispersed mean? We introduced it a couple of weeks ago.
Where does this person come from? Remember different wavelengths experience different refractive indices.
Yes. If you take like a glass or anything, that's not a whole vacuum.
Different wavelengths experience with different refractive indices.
And that means as the pulses propagate through that material, different wavelengths or color components experience different optical path lengths.
So trying to get pulses to stay together in a real material is very challenging,
because when we looked at the picosecond pulses at 800 nanometers, you've got one nanometer, a bandwidth that not a great spread of wavelengths.
But when you're talking with these ultrafast timescales that we're dealing with.
You can see that just one nanometer, a path that exists through a material that has a non-zero dispersion.
It's going to broaden your pulse through dispersion.
So you've got different colors if you want them all to arrive at the same time to give you your perfect pulse because of the dispersion.
Different wavelengths experience different path lengths and arrive at different times.
So with normal dispersion, well, the blue colors within your pulse arrive before or after the red ones.
It was a hit. Remember we said that the normal dispersion, the refractive index, increases with frequency.
As the wavelengths get shorter and refractive index goes up.
So what does that mean in terms of your pulses? Which color?
Which color is going to arrive first? The red one.
Yeah. So the red photons within your pulse, they all left together at the same time.
They start traveling through some dispersive material. The red pulses experience a shorter path length in the blue pulses, so they arrive first.
And that's the effect of dispersion on your pulses.
And that's one of the real challenges in working and using optical pulses in kind of any application,
is the second you send them for glasses through any sort of glass and lens, a microscope objective, they get dispersion.
And it's kind of it's something that we have to work with. So we'll stop there for today because we pretty much run out of time.
Um, there's a couple more facts that we're going to do some more derivations on this, this topic.
Um, tomorrow we're going to have the introduction video assessment.
So we'll dedicate all of tomorrow's lecture introducing the video to my assignment,
how it's going to be assessed, the group's advice on how to do the video editing.
The topics that you'll get to pick from today are six topics that you can cover.
There are 24 of you, and you can have eight groups of four.
So you each get to do one different topic. Um, and I'll introduce this tomorrow.
So any questions. Yeah, if we're looking forward to the video assessment.
If you've all got a small firm. Yeah. So the whole thing is set up to do on a small phone.
And as I was saying a couple of weeks ago, nowadays with like a modern smartphone.
The cameras are really good and you can do pretty much any sort of festival recording on a small phone.
And I think there was some I'm sure it was like some kind of at the iPhone, but there's some film that's been caught on Netflix.
And then when they filmed that, the iPhone 17, you had this what it's like.
So that's apparently how you get like an iPhone 17 camera is that you can see kind of cinema quality photography on it.
Brilliant. So see you all tomorrow. Thank. You.
So much. Thank you.
I'm not gonna finish this one.
So. I just basically.
Yeah. Yeah. I've.
I've just accepted that. I used to work.
Twice. Um, well, so access problems are just, um.
You. Know, just what do you think?
Oh, no no no no no.
I'm not sure, but, um. Oh, thank you very much. Then what is going on?
Yeah. So. Yeah. So I think I quite like.
This. I don't.
You? Never.