I like those? Yeah. The roots of the.
Why does he like that? There's some quite posh accommodations in the town now.
Oh, yeah? Yeah. Like ones where you get, like, a gym.
Uh, that's a school for students. Yeah, that is really cool.
Hey. You're right. Yeah, that's. Yeah. There are 20 girls, so.
How are you finding the course so far? Good, right.
I think you're clear on what you saw in this.
And that's coaching. Oh, yeah? Yeah.
There's a bit of chemistry sneaking into it. It's kind of the interface between civics and chemistry and life sciences.
We got the good stuff today. The golden erotics. Yeah.
You know. Yeah. I.
Mean, it was. So?
So. So. So?
So like. Uh.
Like this. Oh, yeah. Um.
Yeah, I think I. Remember, like this, you know?
So we just let you know. Like.
Okay, I can do that. Oh, that's good because.
You know. Yeah, just I was like. Oh, my.
Goodness. Yeah.
Oh my God. Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, yeah. You know, I just I was everyone's going to have a good weekend.
It was very interesting. Yeah.
Oh so we're on to the good stuff today. Also the non-linear like matter interaction.
So this is where it all starts to come together. So we've kind of introduced the idea of how light interacts with matter and how it's
mediated by this thing called light that contains all the information about the material.
And now we're going to start to see kind of how this all comes together.
When we start thinking about what happens when we introduce an optical non-linearity into chi.
So it's chi that contains the.
The contents are elements that tell us how light interacts with the material, and we're going to see what happens when this becomes your video.
So we're going to look at kind of nonlinear optical susceptibilities.
And we're going to do a kind of quick estimate.
So we can calculate just how small these these these susceptibilities are doing in your interactions you remember about complex conjugates emerge.
So we're going to be using complex conjugate and just looking at how we handle those notifications,
particularly in in the context of how we deal with negative frequency components.
And then we're going to introduce not looking at a couple of nonlinear interactions and say hey alright.
So you missed. So let's just say we finally got to the good stuff now.
So we're we're going to be looking at the nonlinear light interactions with Jesus.
This is messed up. Something quite exciting and interesting. There you go I tell you.
So let's think about all of this.
This whole lecture is about introducing this concept of continuity in some nonlinear optical logical response.
So we are we've kind of already alluded to this idea that we use this idea of expressing P in terms of the electric field strength.
And we've already looked at this idea that we can express it as a power series.
But the key concept is what we looked at last week where this induced polarization, when we're kind of shaking charge inside the material,
this polarization itself that we introduce acts as a new source of components within the electric field.
Yeah. So you remember last week we looked at this concept of how it's our electric material response.
You've got all these bound charges within sight. The material the electric field interacts with the material.
The charge is sent to the oscillating electric field.
They get shaken up and down, and each little charge on its own is emitting a source of radiation.
Yeah. And then in the Lorenz oscillator, we then model this as a, as a drift and harmonic oscillator.
And we kind of see how you get residents associated with this. Yep.
And this explains how you get the kind of refractive index of material.
The material has this effect of slowing the light down, if you remember,
because the phase of the oscillating material isn't always in phase with the driving electromagnetic field.
Everyone happy with that concept? Yeah. So today we're going to introduce the idea that P can be expressed as a power series.
And this oscillating dipole that we produce can produce frequencies other than the one that we use to drive those individual dipoles.
And this is where it gets really interesting. So this is the equation that we've started off looking at.
And you covered this in electromagnetism last year with Matthews.
This is the polarization vector peak. And in words what is capital P.
It's the dipole moment per unit volume if you remember.
So q times R is the individual dipole moment for one particular atom of molecules.
But and we don't really measure that because that's like a microscopic property of one particular charge.
Here's the thing that we're going to measure because it deals with the kind of bulk response of the material,
the dipole moment per unit volume and epsilon naught a constant is the thing we apply.
And Kai, is this kind of magic property of the material that contains all the information about the material that we want to understand.
And we've already introduced this concept that we can express the polarization as a power series.
So this really forms the basis of how we start to look at the nonlinear response of the material by looking at a power series
where we separate out the first order and second order and third order terms of the optical response according to that order.
So the second order response scales with Chi two and it scales with electric field squared,
third order response with the electric field cubed, and so on.
Yeah. And as we get to find out, the higher orders we go, the smaller the contribution is going to make.
So normally when we observe electric responses or systems response and it could even be somebody on a swing kind of thing.
You can achieve non-linear responses mechanically.
We generally only get to see the first order response because the contributions from the higher orders are very, very small.
Yeah. And we're going to look at that in a second. So it's conventional.
So we have this kind of power series of what our polarization would look like.
We can separate it out into the higher orders.
So we can say our overall response is the first order response plus the second order plus the third order.
And we quite often kind of take them out separately. And we'll deal with the second order polarization.
That's just this term and third order induced polarization governed by this term.
Yes. We quite it's quite often handy to take them out and deal with them separately, as we're going to find out the same time.
Any questions so far? Yes. Okay.
So we can kind of do, uh, a back of the envelope calculation as to the strength of the nonlinear interaction that we might expect to get.
And if you remember, when we we did the in week one,
I introduced this idea that we're going to just draw on some of the things that you've learned in A-level and in electromagnetism.
And we calculated this thing called E 80 which is the atomic field strength.
Can anyone remind us what the atomic field strength represents?
We used to ball, if you remember. They remember.
So we looked at this idea of the core model,
where we consider an electron kind of being attracted to a positively charged nucleus, and it's orbiting it.
And we use that kind of model to calculate the ball radius, the radius of the orbit.
And then we use a simple equation to calculate the electric field between the positive and negative electronic charge separated by this radius a.
And that just tells us that that's the electric field that the electron experiences in an atom.
And that's really telling us like what sort of electric field do we need to apply to pull that electron all the way away from the nucleus?
Yeah. So we're pretty much almost ionizing it at that electric field as we're going to see in a second.
The further you pull the electrons away from their equilibrium position, the more nonlinear the response becomes.
So we make this assumption that when the electric field is of the order of, it's just an estimate of the order of the atomic field strength.
That's when we start to see that nonlinear response is becoming of a similar order of magnitude to the linear categorization that we get.
So that's where we can make these assumptions here. So we'll go through these estimates just to convince you that.
It's been working. Is that we might simply can it.
Yeah. So we've got our. Equations for polarization.
Juice polarization. First order.
Second order. The third order equation.
Yep. And we're making this assumption that when.
Electric field is of the order. The atomic field strength.
So P1 is then going to be approximately equal to also approximately equal to three.
Yeah. So that's the assumption that we're making.
That's the kind of if you were asked to kind of do this calculation either in a problem sheet or an exam, you'd be putting down this assumption.
And this would be one of the things that you'd be getting a mask for by making the
assumption that when you've almost pulled the electron completely away from the atom,
that's when the nonlinear response is what the order of the linear response.
So we can then equate these two things, say for the first order and second order.
You've got. I one times e a t is going to be approximately equal to asylum law.
I two times he 18 square.
You'll see. I'll just substitute it in these values for P1 and P2.
Yeah. So then we can rearrange.
Quite two. You can say, maybe it's a car.
I want to find it by the atomic field strength.
Yeah, you can see. Be straightforward. And the other assumption we make is solid state materials.
Chi one is approximately equal to one. Yeah.
So that's the other kind of a thing that you get more remembering.
And then if we put those values in we just get one over the atomic field strength up two times ten to the -12.
Oh, it's a meter. Yeah. And if we do. Exactly.
If we treat the third order in exactly the same way.
She was coming here. It's cute.
To be equal to one over. That's.
Even were. So you can see as you go up to the higher orders,
these nonlinear susceptibilities that mediate the strength of the nonlinear response get smaller and smaller.
And this is why I can kind of like first order. Second or third order.
Don't don't don't we're not even considering the fourth order terms because they're going to get even smaller still.
What do you notice about the units of Chi two and Chi three?
The units of Chi two and Chi three. Yeah, they have different dimensions.
So this kind of catches people out. And it's quite important to remember this and realize where this comes from.
And so if we let's just it's always useful I think to do dimensional analysis when
we're looking at equations because it's always a very good sanity check in an exam.
If you're not sure if you've got the answer in the equation right. So we've got p equals silent naught k times e.
That's the general equation for this polarization vector.
What you know. So let's look at some dimensional analysis.
So what are the units of capital P? What do we say?
Words that captured people's images.
Polarization. Some think per unit fully.
Yeah. Dipole moment per unit volume. So p is equal to q dot.
That's the dipole moment. Yeah. Divided by volume.
So we've got. Dipole moment.
Only. So what are the units going to be of key?
The coulombs per meter would be a dipole moment divided by volume meters cubed.
So you're quite right. Coulombs per meter squared.
And you notice I've been putting in dot in between these two.
That's just so you don't confuse me to the category.
Guillaume. Say, what about epsilon naught?
What are the units of asylum laws? What's the value of it?
So I don't know. 8.85.
Ten. -12. That's probably a number you're used to type into your calculator quite regularly.
One of the units. Okay, so it's we let's put the units in.
So it's force per meter. So equal to um squared seconds to the kilo per meter squared.
Peter comes out. Coulombs word.
Centimeter squared. You. Cute.
This is just using the S.I. units. So the rules. And then what about the units of electric field.
Yes. You can express its faults. Coming, sir. What's the other way?
Right here. So that is completely correct.
But you'll notice that all the things that I've got on the P and its item don't do in terms of coulombs and meters.
What's the other way you can express those kind of meter.
So the electric field. Yeah. If you go back to this idea, what the electric field tells you to force a unit charge.
So if you have your kind of unit positive test charge, it's the force that that positive charge would experience.
That's what Newtons Coulomb. And then we can to help us we can put that in terms of kilograms.
Mass times acceleration. One of my moms and we put it all together.
Yeah. So we've calculated the units of these guys.
So we get Coulomb square centimeter squared per kilo.
Times those. Second from.
That comes out coulombs per meter squared. Which means what?
In terms of chi, what are the units of chi? So this guy and this guy, we put the units together and we get the units of.
So what does that mean in terms of the units of kind? The Mentalist doesn't have any units.
Yeah, and I think this is more like he told you in here that your magnetism is one so kind.
You one. So I mentioned this.
Yeah. Now let's look at p2 p3.
So. Peta is calling two times the electric field squared.
And that. Yep. Sorry. The units and Newtons being kilograms per second squared.
Yes. Sorry. You spotted my intentional mistake.
Will don't keep your distance. So yeah. Mass times acceleration of velocity.
So the second order term, you can instantly see that it's got to have different units.
Yeah. Because the units of Electric Field and Silom law and P haven't changed.
Yeah. That because you've got an extra E on this side.
The units of Chi two. Have to be.
Votes per meet to balance the equation. Yeah, you'll see that.
Um, and then likewise the P three item no.
Code three e cubed. So this time.
I three has to have meter squared. Squares?
Yes. So as you go to the higher orders, Chi has a different set of units,
and it's because you get an additional multiplier of electric field as you go up to E squared between and so on.
Yeah. So pretty trivial.
But it's very important that you remember this because it's always useful to check your units when you're doing questions on things.
Does that make sense. Okay. So back to the slides.
Okay, so we've done a call back with the envelope calculation just to give us a kind of solid point to go.
Give us a feel for how small these things are going to be.
Yes, and this is really important. Later when we look at how we actually achieve measurable non-linear polarizations.
We're going to see that we're getting some pretty big lasers to achieve something
that's measurable on the scale that we'd get from a linear polarization,
just because we're dealing with much, much smaller conversion efficiencies with the high water susceptibilities.
Yeah. So everyone appreciates the 10 to 12 is very small.
Ten to the -24 is significantly smaller.
Yeah. And good luck tomorrow I detect the fourth one because it's going to be ten to the -36.
Yeah. Okay, so the next concept that we need to or I need to tell you about is something called consider symmetry.
And this is something that you just don't get with linear like matter interactions.
When we deal with higher order processes, we have to take into account symmetry.
So if we have something that has center of symmetry, its effects,
whether we can get a second order response and a fourth order response, but we're ignored by ignoring fourth order responses.
And obviously, theoretically, second order response is anything but an even order response.
You will not get it if your molecular system or crystal exhibits center symmetry.
So this is a kind of. Simple diagram showing molecule or base, lattice point or whatever inside a crystal.
And this demonstration is just showing if you take the same kind of basis and put it together in two different ways,
you can achieve an arrangement where you have symmetry, where you don't have symmetry.
Yeah. So you can see if we put this guy together in this way along various different axis points.
If you were to fold it over, it would be perfectly symmetric and you get the same shape.
Whereas if we put it together in this way, you can see that we've broken the symmetry and and you can't fold it over onto itself.
Yet you're happy with the idea of what symmetry is. Yep. So this guy is symmetrical.
This guy isn't symmetrical all from the same kind of molecular basis, but where we don't have the symmetry.
So where we do have the symmetry, our second order response.
Is equal to zero. And where we don't have the cemetery our second order response is not equal to zero.
And this is really important. So not very few things actually exhibit second order responses.
And you have to select the molecular origin of that signal very carefully to choose
things that don't have this symmetry in order to give you this note of 0.2.
Now we're going to kind of I'm going to show you, kind of convince you why this is the case.
Um, and then later actually tomorrow, you're going to mathematically be able to demonstrate why.
Materials with a non symmetric structure exhibit chi2 as well as their symmetric don't.
But let's first look at it in this hand-wavy kind of way that introduces the concept.
And this this slide really kind of should hopefully explain the whole picture of how
nonlinear responses work and how materials can generate an multilinear optical response.
So if you remember back to week one, we have this picture of the induced polarization.
So with no electric field charge, no electric field applied, you have charges in their equilibrium positions.
They're all at the equilibrium position attracted to the positive charge centers.
We apply an electric field and we distort that cloud a negative electric charge.
Yeah. And it's this kind of distortion that gives rise to this non zero induced polarization.
If we're happy with that. This is kind of a picture that Matthew taught you and what we've looked at so far.
And then we also introduced this idea that if you have a linear restoring force you integrate it and you get the potential.
And what's the what was the shape of this graph that we looked at? It's you.
The potential is equal to minus half k squared.
What's the name of that function. Begins with P.
Rob. Yeah. So you have this parabolic potential that your charges sit in, and we apply when we're dealing with an electromagnetic field.
The electric field that we apply is of itself the function of a sine wave.
Yeah. So you have an oscillating electric field and it oscillates in the form of a sine wave.
And if we were to look at the spectrum of that sine wave take the Fourier transform.
We use the idea for a transforms in week one. How many frequency components are present in this driving or applied electric field?
Well, yeah. So we have one frequency and this is our let's call it omega naught.
The driving frequency.
And we drive our charge distribution and we're going to be shaking it or driving it backwards and forwards in this parabolic potential.
And it's going to sit there. We kind of increase the electric field.
It gets dragged out all the way to the to the positive side of X, and then the field goes back down again.
It gets dragged back to the negative side of X, so forth.
And if we were to then look at remember we looked at that kind of point charge model where the point charge,
that first kind of animation that I showed with the red dot going up and down and the electric field lines coming out,
the induced polarization that we produce is going to be a sine wave of the same frequency that we drove that oscillation out, isn't it?
Yep. Single frequency. Same frequency as the driving force.
The amplitude is just mediated by the size of chi.
So if you get a zero chi, you get zero polarization produced.
If you get a very big value of color, you get a much stronger polarization produced in the material.
And remember, each of these little polarizations that produce are emitting their own little electromagnetic fields.
Yeah. So that's given by this equation.
Now where it gets really interesting is what if we didn't have a linear restoring force which is what happens in real materials.
So in real materials when we have small values of electric field and we're dealing with small displacements from the equilibrium position,
it's reasonable to assume that it's a linear restoring force.
And it's not in a parabolic potential for small displacements.
But when you start increasing the electric field and you start dragging the charges further and further away from their equilibrium position,
and you start approaching the field strength required to completely pull them away from that,
from the from the atoms that they're attracted to, things start to become nonlinear.
The restoring force is no longer a linear potential.
Yeah. And, you know, we've assumed we've made this assumption at the very start.
When we looked at the Lorenz oscillator model, I said, we're going to model this charge distribution as a kind of mass on a spring.
And we're making the assumption that there's a linear restoring force.
And that assumption is only true for small displacements.
Yeah. When we start to look at bigger displacements closer to the kind of atomic field strength,
it starts to deviate away from this model system where it was a linear restoring force.
So we can draw two potentials, both of them.
We now have nonlinear responses at the extremities.
And in the first case we have a symmetrical potential.
So the red line the blue line is our linear model that we initially drew which holds valid for small displacements.
Small displacements. The red line is a is a parabola. But as we get further and further away from you, as x increases,
you can see the potential deviates from that parabolic model that we assumed when we dealt with the Lorentz oscillation model.
And this is exactly what happens in real materials.
So in this case, when we get to the extremities on the left and the right hand side, once we get beyond a certain point,
it starts to become easier to pull the charges away for given a given increase in electric field.
Yeah, you can see that. So now if we again take our single frequency sine wave,
but this time we're driving to much higher amplitudes and we're driving our charges through this potential.
We can see that the the induced. Dipole moment P type of induced polarization.
Effect of. As we get to higher and higher amplitude displacements, P increases more than it would of the linear term.
Yeah because x is getting bigger. So if we now plot the response of that potential in terms of the polarization vector,
we no longer get our sinusoidal single sinusoidal response in terms of the induced polarization.
So we do not have a sinusoidal response at very small displacements.
But as that the higher values of electric field we can see, we get a stronger polarization induced and our sine wave becomes kind of a bit more peaky.
Yeah. And it's exactly the same thing happens in the negative displacement direction again.
We kind of have this sinusoidal response right in the middle for small displacements.
But we get the high displacements and the charges get dragged further than they would have been for the linear case.
So we've got this kind of pickiness introduced into our the function, the waveform of the induced dipole moments.
And don't forget this polarization vectors that we're dealing with these kind of shaking charges.
These guys are emitting an electric field of this form.
Yeah. So this function that we've got here is different from the single sine wave that we initially started with.
So. When we looked at the response here,
we were quite happy to say this is a single frequency sine wave and just one component omitted to make up this guy.
If we were to take the Fourier transform of this function, what would the spectrum look like?
What would it look like in terms of the different frequencies that make it up?
It's no longer a single sideways contained in that it's a combination of sine waves.
If you do the Fourier transform, you have a distribution of frequencies that make up the signal.
And this is where it gets interesting because we sent in a single frequency omega.
And because of the non-linear response of this material,
the output produced by this induced polarization now contains many, many different frequency components.
Or it can respond to different frequency components than the one we sent in.
Yeah. And then looking at the other example where we have a non-linear potential.
So this time it's easier to drag it on this side.
But it becomes harder to to move the charges on this side.
Now we have this induced polarization in the material where on the positive side you get this kind of flattening of
the sine wave because it was harder to induce the polarization at the larger amplitudes than it was on this side.
So you've got a kind of flattening on top here. And then again, this kind of peaking this if your sine wave on the other side.
And again, if we looked at the frequency components, you can instantly tell it's not a single sine wave component required to make up this guy.
Yeah. And this is the origin of the nonlinear response of the material.
And it relies on the material having or deviating from this parabolic potential.
And you kind of took it for granted when I introduced the idea of the parabolic potential rising from the linear restoring force.
But it's only a linear restoring force at small displacements.
Yeah. And that was the assumption that we made in the Lorenz oscillator model.
So to kind of convince, how could you convince somebody that the second order response for this situation is zero,
and it's not zero for this situation? It's going to say it's a kind of useful party trick,
but it's not kind of the sort of thing that would probably get many people off a bunch of physicists excited into Party Trick.
But the way to convince somebody is, as you change the sign of Eve, in order for P to not be zero, the sign of P should change.
Yeah. So as the electric field oscillates up and down it goes positive to negative, positive to negative.
Your induced polarization should also be kind of positive to negative. Yeah.
I couldn't follow that. So just on this side P when E is positive, P is positive ego's negative, P is negative.
Yeah. If we instantly look at this equation here.
So let's go with the third order one. If you take a negative if you make positive E.
E to the power of three. It's going to be positive. You take a negative value of electric field.
E to the power of three is negative. Yeah. So you can see.
Thirdly, polarization doesn't really care about supersymmetry.
However, if we look at second order response when egos positive, pairs positive, egos negative, what happens to P?
Yeah. So minus E squared is positive E doesn't work out.
Yeah. The only way you can achieve a non-zero p two.
In the second world second order is by having a non symmetric potential that it's added.
So here you can see that everything cancels out on the left hand side and the right hand side.
Here because of the lack of symmetry you get a greater response on the negative side than you do on the positive side.
So you get non-zero response. Yeah.
And the way that this this works out in terms of the tensor maths, is that the components of your this is where k two is hidden.
And you have to have a non symmetric two tensor for them not to cancel out in the positive and negative sides.
Yep. So that actually kind of hand-wavy way to explain it that for this guy to work.
He has to go negative. When he goes negative and you have to have a non symmetric potential to tense up if I follow that.
Okay. So the next thing that we need to get our heads around is the concept of a negative frequency.
So I kind of still don't recognize what this is.
But this is like a few years. You guys don't listen to the radio anymore, do you?
Nobody does it in your car. Like back in the 90s and early 2000.
You used to have radios in the dashboard, and there would be a knob that you turn and it would tune the frequency that you listen to.
You're looking at me blankly. But nowadays, obviously with digital radio, we don't have to tune in to a certain frequency.
Um, but you're familiar with what frequency is in terms of, like, a radio frequency or.
Yeah. So you have this kind of this kind of scale that you tune to.
So you might be tuning to, like, I don't know, seven megahertz, your favorite radio station,
but you've never really you wouldn't have quoted some negative frequency.
What you frequency isn't the sort of quantity that you'd ever consider having a negative.
But we need to deal with negative frequencies in terms of nonlinear optics, as it's going to become apparent in a second.
So if we think about frequencies in the concept of a negative frequency, the kind of fundamental way in which we express frequencies,
we can we can look at the kind of rotating vector look in angular frequency omega.
And if we think about where these kind of a sine wave from this function, you consider this kind of radius.
I will also go around this kind of circular rotation.
And if we plot the amplitude this makes along the x direction you get this sine wave as omega increases as it goes around the circle.
Yeah. If we deal with the negative value of omega, the one we've got here this time our.
Mcos go around the opposite direction. See, the first one is going around counterclockwise.
The counterclockwise. The negative omega is going around clockwise.
If we're to plot how that sine wave evolves, it looks exactly the same.
Yeah. You get a sine wave of exactly the same frequency and face.
It looks identical. Well, negative frequencies become important.
And you've done this before when you've looked at complex conjugates, is that we have to deal for any.
Um, electromagnetic wave or frequency component.
We we always have to deal with this complex conjugate.
Yeah. So this is the kind of sine wave that we've been considering for our electromagnetic field.
And we always have to consider the complex conjugate because the same in the same way that E to the omega T can produce this sine wave.
So can E to the I omega t. And for most cases you can kind of ignore the complex conjugates.
But this is really important in nonlinear optics because this is the basis for how a lot of the signal generations take place.
So you're happy with this idea of the complex conjugate. You see here before we dealt with imaginary numbers.
Yeah. That's not a new concept.
But for every electric field it's made up of an electric field E to the I minus I omega T plus its complex conjugate times E to the plus I omega t.
Yeah. So we don't always like to write this out just because as we're going to find out later, these become burdensome to write them all out.
So it's conventional to just stick with the minus omega t term and then just say plus C don't C complex conjugate.
Yeah. If you see this notation people. But you're definitely familiar with complex conjugates.
Yeah. So in IT optics people often just put this c don't C in that.
It says basically package up all the complex conjugates into that thing.
Because I think to write them out and you don't need to read them. So it's pretty straightforward.
That's if we have just one frequency components in our signal.
But quite often we might have two frequency components. So this time we've got our electric field.
And it's made up of frequency one and frequency two.
Frequency one has an attitude of E1. And frequency two has an amplitude of E2.
And for both components we have to consider the complex conjugates.
Yeah. And then to save having to write out the four terms, we just take the two complex conjugates and love them together in CC.
And we're left with e1 e to the minus omega one t plus e2 e to the I minus I omega two t.
Yeah. And then we've lumped the conscious complex conjugates together in the system.
If we follow. So I'm not really introducing anything new.
We're just reminding ourselves of what a complex conjugate is and just introducing this notation that we don't always write out everything in full.
I mean, as if we're going to see nonlinear optics, we do need to consider the complex conjugates.
So we're now going to quickly whiz through. Some of the common nonlinear optical processes.
So the first one is second harmonic generation.
And if you remember back to lecture one, this was the first nonlinear nonlinear optical process that was discovered.
Who was the guy that discovered it? French windows.
The year after the laser was 1st May demonstrated, second harmonic generation was was demonstrated,
and it was this concept where he took a red ruby laser, showed it on a crystal, and then detected a small amount of blue light coming out.
Well. Now I'm going backwards.
Sorry. So he's shown this red light onto a crystal, loads of it, and detected a tiny amount of blue light.
And that was described as we saw by this diagram here. So we come in with two photons, each equal to frequency omega.
And effectively they get non-related and produce a single photon of twice the frequency.
And that's given by second harmonic generation. It's a second order process.
We have two electric fields going in omega one in this case two lots of omega one going in.
And it scales with the electric field squared. Our incident field is represented by.
This equation. So we've got e to the minus I omega t plus the complex conjugate.
E to the plus omega I t. Yeah.
And if we insert the electric field into this equation so we take e squared we deal with the we remember we've got complex conjugates in that.
So we deal with the full equation and we multiply them out.
We get. This is the this is the answer. So we get the cross term where we get the electric field times its complex conjugate.
So we get e times e star and it's multiplied by e to the minus I omega t plus I omega t.
So the only omega bits cancel. And you get this term with no oscillation associated with that.
So the oscillating components go on. And this is known as optical rectification where you just get a DC offset in the field in your material.
And then if we multiply the this guy squared this guy squared we get a term which comes out I minus I omega.
Minus I Omega you giving us minus two.
I omega to double the frequency and we get the same with the complex conjugate.
Yeah. So we get a term in the complex conjugate plus five two omega t.
Yeah. And this is mathematically showing us where the second harmonic generation comes for.
So we get this DC offset. And a signal coming out with twice the frequency of the one coming in.
So this is our second humble acceleration that we expect to get.
Yeah, if I follow that.
So just the maths of how we generate this by taking our electric field and shoving it into this equation that we're happy with,
and we can see that we get the term out with two omega in it twice the frequency.
So if we're the next kind of thing to be looked at after second harmonic generation was,
okay, well, what happens if we stick two light fields in as omega one?
Omega two. So our equation with E squared it doesn't have to be the same wave going in.
Yeah. So we can take if we take our electric field and we say it's made up of two components omega one
and omega two plus their complex conjugates which I stop listening because it gets quite long.
We stick this equation in to our second order polarization bit where we square it.
We can now see that we get a lot more terms out. Yeah. So we we multiply all the combinations.
Don't forget we've got another two terms. The two clocks. We've got four electric fields in here.
When we deal with the complex conjugates we multiply them together.
And then we now get a much longer that turns produced.
We get the second harmonic generation of the F omega one.
The second harmonic generation of omega two. We get omega one plus omega two.
So the sum of the frequencies and we also get omega one minus omega t.
So the difference of that frequency simply just by multiplying all these terms together one square.
And then we also get the optical rectification term with DC offset.
Yeah. So sending it into different waves, into this crystal we get QG of one and the other.
Plus the sum of them plus the difference of seven fully.
So you can now see that for second order processes by sending in two different waves.
We've now got quite a complicated already building up number of interactions and different frequencies that we can,
that we can produce through non-linear interactions. Where it starts to get interesting is when we get to the third order.
So the most simple case to deal with, to start off with is just to say, okay, let's just send as as we did with second generation.
We'll send in three lots of omega and see if we get omega three out and do some third harmonic generation to simplify it.
We'll kind of ignore the fact that it's a vector. And just look at this curly e cos omega t.
This is what we expect to get. Which of course curly e into this equation.
Qubit. Use this cosine identity and you get a terminal at three omega and a term out f omega.
Yeah. So that's that's how we demonstrate the simple case of third harmonic generation where it gets complicated but not really complicated.
But just a lot of writing is enough.
We take the general case where. We have three different frequencies.
So we've got E1 omega one E2 and getting E3 omega three plus all their complex conjugates.
We now cube this guy. And remember we've got six terms in this equation.
And we have to keep them all. It's quite a long handed thing to write out, but if you go through it you get 44 different frequency components,
just like the combinations of the cube, of the six different things that you're cubing.
Um, and these frequencies are written by.
These guys here. And if we kind of write them all out kind of longhand, by taking Omega being three different discrete values,
you get a very long list of 44 different unique optical frequencies that are produced.
So I'm never going to ask you to produce that in an exam, because it would just take me far too long,
and I don't want to sit there and read them all to all your picture.
And it's just, you know, quadratic equations, just multiplying these things out.
But what's important is to understand through that kind of quadratic expansion, you get all these different combinations.
And I we go one crossing every two. Let me go one classification on this omega three.
All these different variations. And the only ones that we're going to use are the ones in blue.
So what's this guy couldn't hear? What's that optical process?
Give me third one I told you about so far. Third harmonic generation.
Yeah. So you take three lots of omega one and you get a three omega coming out.
Yeah. So that one we're going to be using later.
And I'll put that in play. And then the other one which we're going to look at is this one in blue.
Um and you'll find out later why this is interesting.
Uh oh. Yeah. And I put this little thing, this quote, that highway three is where the action is.
Remember when I first got into nonlinear optics? I went to this conference in somewhere in America.
And if you ever see, you've probably never seen any American presentations or conferences.
But the Americans, like, they literally come out with like, jazz hands and they're like really lively in their sports jackets and chinos and stuff.
And there was this guy came out and he was using nonlinear optics to to measure the temperature of combustion gases in jet engines,
um, which is quite a common application. And, and he was going through the theory and then his kind of phrase was, chi free is where the action is.
So like hidden within chi three. It's this term here that he was using to work out with temperatures gases.
So this as you can see. However,
it does contain an awful lot of combinations and it really does allow you to look at lots of
different frequency combinations that allow you to really probe what's going on inside materials.
So just if you can remember one thing, just remember the typeface where all the action is.
I was like 20 years ago. So tomorrow we're going to.
Got a bit more mathematical still, and we're going to kind of revisit this whole idea of the equations of motion,
basically redo the Lorenz oscillator model that for non linear potentials.
And we're going to see how that enables us to calculate the nonlinear susceptibility for materials.
Okay. So we've we've introduced the idea of optical non-linearities.
You can now estimate or have an appreciation of how small Pi two and Phi three are,
based on the assumption that they're measurable when the electric field approaches the atomic field strength.
We've revisited complex conjugate and how that fits into negative frequencies.
We've looked at symmetry and how it's important for second and third order processes and how they occur differently.
So there's a second order process require symmetric quite rare and normal
symmetric unlike a symmetric chi two or non symmetric highlighting and symmetric.
Yes. And just remember this idea that when ego's negative p needs to go negative.
And if you don't have that, breaking the symmetry minus e squared gives you positive p.
Yeah. And that doesn't work. Okay.
So I'll see you tomorrow.
But we'll get into the really exciting stuff actually doing the kind of small things like differential equations to calculate.
Yeah. I love.
You. I love you.
When I. Say.