Yeah yeah yeah.
Yeah, yeah. I think.
Common. Condition disorders.
Of. You're right.
Of course, you always give up too much on the weekends. Oh, I got emotional weekend.
What'd you do? I once was blind. Oh. You didn't?
Yeah I wasn't. Well, I didn't rain as much support out here.
Yeah. I'm someone. I mean, this one's covered in scratches from a truck into a bush.
Um, my knees are also covered in scratches.
Uh, you know, it's good fun. Um, experimented and thought out on the right.
Likes. Um, it heats up very quick. True.
Yeah. Minutes. Anyone else gets anything exciting?
Very disappointing. Yeah.
Uh. What?
Are. You one of the online quizzes on any.
You said it was dum dum dum dum.
Yeah. So. Well, it's not just.
It's there for me to see how well you're doing, but it's also really good to give yourself feedback in terms of understanding.
So if you haven't done them, I strongly suggest getting on with them.
We really. Yeah.
Same recipe. Okay,
so we've kind of last week we looked at kind of contrast mechanisms how we can
exploit live matter interaction and to to work out what's inside materials.
And then second lecture, we went on to look at kind of a fraction of the minute resolving things we did with microscopes.
And we kind of moved upon. And the angular resolution that you learned when you were doing astrophysics.
And we kind of reframed that in terms of the microscope objective.
And the reason we want to do that kind of reminds why what we like to do with angles under a microscope.
Because they're really hard to measure. Yeah. So dealing with telescopes, you can easily work out the angle that two stars make in the sky,
but you don't know how far away they are and then how far apart they are.
In any microscope. We know exactly how far where to go.
What we want to do is to point exactly how far north we get to sample.
So we kind of we looked at fluorescence and we looked at absorption.
Um, and we, we kind of touched upon this idea that the contrast mechanisms that we want to use
in the optical regime correspond to electrons being trapped inside molecules,
where we use the, um, infinite, uh, finite square potential.
Well, and the length over which they're confined is larger than an atom, and it corresponds to kind of sort of 6 or 7 kind of chemical bonds across.
And when, when, when the electrons are confined on those scales, we kind of we get transitions or excitation levels occurring in the optical range.
And we looked at how you can have kind of dyes and how you could have fluorescent tags that enabled you to get chemical specificity.
Yeah. What was the problem with those dyes and tags?
Yup. The size of. Yeah. The size. So it's appropriate to use a kind of fluorescent tag if you want to label a protein.
A protein is massive, and it's the equivalent of sticking like a one kilogram GPS tag on a five ton elephant.
Other molecules are much smaller.
So if you want to image things like drug molecules, metabolites, fatty acids, then the size, the molecular weight of the die becomes comparable.
And you're going to perturb what the molecule does, um, by sticking that on top of it.
And of course there's other applications where you just can't stain the sample.
So what if you wanted to look at kind of an a human.
So we talked about kind of dot making to like gnosis from kind of taking biopsies of people's tissue.
The ultimate goal would be able to kind of scan people to take optical images of people without removing the tissue.
So if you want to use kind of chemical contrast, your patient isn't going to like it.
If you have to kind of fluorescently label them, it's just some it's just not an option.
So here we're trying to understand how we can exploit the physics of light matter interactions to give us some sort of chemical specificity.
So the colors and fluorescent emissions that we get from these tags and labels,
the chemical specificity is coming from the biochemistry of how we label different bits, rather than the physics of the light match interaction.
And here we're moving now into the kind of physics of the light matter interaction that underpins how we can generate control.
So the goal is we want to exploit. Susceptibility of different materials,
like citing the materials with different combinations of wavelengths to give us contrast without having to use fluorescent labels.
So we can look at light matter interaction in the kind of conventional sense where we're going to be considering a linear light matter interaction.
So we're not moving on to the nonlinear stuff, which is looking at how we deal with light matter interaction in the conventional way.
We're going to derive polarization and set susceptibility for different dielectric materials using this thing called the Lorenz oscillator model.
And this is where you kind of waves and optics module that you did in the first year when
you looked at kind of harmonic harmonic oscillations where it meets electromagnetism.
We put the two together. And then we can understand how material interacts with light at different frequencies.
And then start to think about how this term susceptibility links to optical contrast.
So this is kind of I keep kind of hammering home this equation because it's the kind of fundamental part of light matter interaction.
So we have this polarization P what's the definition of polarization.
This polarization vector neighbor remember. It's actually induced dipoles per unit volume.
Yeah, you remember that. And it's a vector. Um, episodic notes are constant.
And this susceptibility is the thing that maps the electric field onto the polarisation factor that's produced.
So both e the electric field and the induced polarization of vectors.
So we've kind of got this kind of model where we have positive charges and negative charges surrounding those positive charged sentences.
You clean electric field and that electric field distorts the charge distribution.
And now we're going to think about what does this mean in terms of light matter interaction.
So we're going to start kind of digging into this little bit more and seeing how different
materials respond to different frequencies or different wavelengths of applied electric field.
And then kind of spoiler or not. Spoiler. I'm just going to give you a little hint.
In nonlinear optics, this polarization that's induced allows us to generate new frequencies.
And that's really the fundamental part of nonlinear optics that this polarization vector p becomes a source term.
And that's, that's that's that's kind of the crux of the whole topic.
So if we look at light matter interaction that kind of said this a few times, but it's really important to reinforce it.
So electric field drives electrons.
So the electrons respond to the applied electric field.
But in most materials electrons aren't free.
They're bound to the material in some kind of potential.
And the potential is kind of something that's unique to that material or environment that the electrons are in.
And that's something that we use to try and explore what the material is made of,
come up with unique contrast mechanisms to detect that particular type of material.
So different materials have different potentials.
That gives the kind of uniqueness of the material. And.
Great polarization that we induce depends on the material and the electric field and the stuff that we're interested in.
The unique the unique properties of that material are hidden within this susceptibility.
So the electric field is the field you apply from the radiation that you shine onto the material.
And P is the polarization that you produce. The strength of the response of that material to the electric field.
And chi is the bit that we want to probe.
We want to understand what's inside K, because that tells us a lot of stuff about the material, how it's ordered,
how it's structured, the potential that the charges to Saturn in terms of what type of materials that it is.
And the way we're going to explore this is by considering electrons in materials to behave like a driven harmonic oscillator.
So you remember the harmonic oscillator from stage one. Yes.
So we're going to model the response of electrons to oscillating electric fields as if they're harmonic oscillators.
So. The next thing we need to think about is this single charge radiation model.
So in electromagnetism you you learn about electric fields and you.
I'm actually in the exam or, um, midterm test me.
You asked to kind of field lines with different charge distributions things.
Is that one of the things you've got set.
So for a point positive charge you would have field lines radially coming away from that positive charge center.
The field lines are pointing away from the positive charge because they charge in the direction that a positive test charge would move in.
Are you quite happy with these straight lines coming out from that positive charge?
Yeah. It's nothing new. And then you get kind of concentric rings of lines of equipotential that go around at 90 degrees to fill lines.
Yep. To where it becomes interesting and where we start to think about kind of electrodynamics rather than electrostatics,
is what if we consider just shifting that positive charge that we've got our charge distribution?
If we're able to just kind of reach in and just yank that charge away from where it was very quickly,
because we have to get continuity of the field lines,
if we suddenly shift it up in the vertical direction suddenly, because the continuity of the field lines,
we're going to get a distortion in the field line as a distance away from the charge.
And if we kind of allow that to evolve with time, we get a wave traveling out away from the positive charge.
Yeah. So if we then take our charge rather than just shift it once, if we grab hold of it and just shake it up and down,
we're going to get a rate that a wave traveling along the electric field lines in a way that that charge is emitting radiation.
Yeah. So it will make sense. So you can see if it's moving up and down.
We've got these sinusoidal waves traveling along the field lines as we move away from.
Sorry. You said it was a driven oscillator. What's causing the driving?
Well, we'll get to that in a second. So at the moment, the driving is my hand wiggling this charge up and down.
That's in a second we'll look at most obviously it's the light which is driving it up and down the electric field of the light, which is a sine wave.
So at the moment we're just doing this kind of thought experiment where we can physically
reach in and wobble this electron up and down with a kind of sinusoidal displacement.
And we get this field being emitted. So let's look at what happens in a material.
So you've covered dielectric material. So dielectrics are insulators that can be polarized by an electric field.
So without any field being applied we've got all the atoms shown by these little red dots with the gray clouds around the baby electrons.
And everything's nice and symmetric. We get this kind of circular spherical charge distribution around our positive charge centers.
And everything's at its equilibrium position. We then apply an electromagnetic wave.
So the electromagnetic wave is the driving force.
So the charges experience a force when they're in an electromagnetic field.
And our electromagnetic field is oscillating up and down.
So we're literally driving them at sinusoidal frequency.
Everyone happy so far.
But the bit we have to consider is that each individual cloud of charge around those positive charge centers is emitting its own field.
Yeah, because we're checking them up and down in that electric field.
Each positive, each charge, cloud, ridge, electron around that positive charge center is emitting its own electromagnetic radiation field.
Yeah. So what does that mean? What's what?
What are we going to experience? So the electromagnetic wave coming through.
Experience is an internal field where the phase of that internal field isn't necessarily in phase, but the drawing field.
So it has an effect of reducing this overall slowing effect on the field.
Yeah. So.
Going back to this kind of polarization effect. We've got this linear restoring force.
So we have as we move the electrons further away from that positive charge center.
The restoring force increases linearly. So with the harmonic oscillator you have the spring force okay.
And as you increase x this restoring force increases.
What's the relationship between potential. And force.
In this case. Anyway.
So you're you're restoring pools is the rate of change of the potential that the field sits in.
So the relationship between the potential and the restoring force is the integral as a function of x.
Yeah. So we have a linear restoring force. We want to plot potential.
And what does that look like. So we integrate F with respect to x and we get half k x squared.
What does that look like. How would you describe this function. Yeah.
And a parabola. Yeah. So it sat in a parabolic potential.
Yeah. So you're all familiar with this idea that the relationship between potential and force.
That the force is the rate of change of potential. Yeah.
You're happy with this idea? A bit like the grid, the contour lines on a map where you get the of contour lines closer together.
You have a steeper gradient. Yeah. You're familiar with this level.
So this is the relationship between our restoring force and the parabolic potential.
So you can kind of imagine your charge as a kind of kind of ball rolling within this field.
And it's got a driving force that's pushing it away from the equilibrium position.
But the further it gets, the greater that restoring force gets pushing it back to the same equilibrium position.
Yeah. You're looking a bit kind of confused.
Does this all sound familiar?
Okay, so this this is the kind of the basis of kind of resonance that you covered when you were doing harmonic oscillation last year.
And it's back to this idea of we can kind of model this of kind of pushing somebody on a swing.
We have a resonance that the body on the spring swing wants to move at, which is a function of the length of the swing.
So if we do in a very low frequency, you just push the person and you get this kind of constant offset, this displacement.
Yeah. If we push them on resonance where you kind of push and then wait for them to come
back and then push again where you're driving them 90 degrees out of phase with,
with the the force is 90 degrees out of place, just displacement.
We're on resonance. And then we go to this point where if you try to push them too quickly, you're just kind of shaking them.
The person on the swing can't respond that quickly. Yeah.
And you just end up kind of shaking them. And there's zero displacement. Yeah.
So we kind of introduced this idea or recapped this idea you should be pretty familiar with out to about it.
So when you're a high frequency, you're kind of shoving down 180 degrees out of phase of imperfect opposition, and there's zero displacement.
Yeah. And we we kind of covered this. So in red we've got the amplitude as a function of frequency.
And then in blue we've got the phase between the driving force and the displacement.
So we've got zero phase 90 degree phase and then 180 degrees out of phase.
Yeah. Unfamiliar one happy. So we apply this exact kind of approach to the electrons sat around the column around the atoms.
They have this linear restoring force, a power parabolic potential.
And this forms the basis of the Lorenz oscillator model, so named after a Dutch physicist.
Hendrik and Tim Lorenz.
And really, all it is, is taking this idea that you have your your electron clouds attracted to a nucleus.
And we multiply this as a linear restoring force, which, as we're going to find out later, is not it's just an approximation.
But we can model this in exactly the same way as you would consider a mass on a
spring with some kind of damping or frictional force applied to that system.
Yeah. So this is the the model system.
That you covered in your first year. We're really just saying we got this electric field applying a force to these negative charges.
We have a restoring force. They want to come back to the positive charge centers that spring.
And then we have some damping introduced, which is how the charges interact with the material and the other charges around.
So you familiar with the equation of motion for harmonic oscillation.
So we've got the. So the driving force is the electric force.
So it's the charge times the applied electric field.
And that's equal to the restoring force trying to bring charges back towards the positive center.
And that's given by this equation here where omega is the omega naught is the resonant frequency, R is the displacement.
And you should be familiar with how you calculate the resonant frequency for mass of a spring square root,
the spring constant divided by the mass of the particle.
Yeah. And we've got a frictional damping term which is proportional to the first derivative.
Displacement, uh, over time.
So what's that tell me is important to. Velocity.
And then we've got the acceleration force of the particle.
So if this is your kind of standard equation of motion harmonic oscillator.
And this is kind of the starting point for kind of how we derive.
How are we hoping to get to an equation that tells us how the susceptibility of this material changes as a function of the driving frequency.
So did you solve this equation in the first year? Yeah.
What sort of equation is it? It's a differential equation.
Yes. So we want to solve it. One of the ways to solve is by simple differential equation.
The way to solve it is to propose a solution.
And in this case we want to look at the solution as a function of displacement is equal to the equilibrium position times I.
I'm e to the I omega t or j omega t, so that's a sinusoidal wave function.
We know it simply. We pick the sinusoidal wave function as our solution, because we know that the electric field has the form of a sine wave.
Yeah. And by the way, are you happy with with the replacement of I with J.
You've come across this before and we do this because in electromagnetism I often refers to currents and things.
So we just use J because there are other things that kind of start when we use j for such it starts confusion over currents.
So to go about solving this.
So we've got em all down to our last, um, jammer.
So you have him with the notation of dots. Dots?
Yep. If we're happy. Yep. Perfect. Just say you're writing out longhand.
It's, um. Not squares. Um.
To the driving force. So we're going to take.
Uh equals uh not e minus J omega T is our solution.
So the first thing we're going to do is just jot down all adult and, uh,
double don't going to be because that'll make it easier when we substitute everything in the order of what is going to be minus J Omega.
I know he likes j Omega t and r w.
It's going to be j squared minus Council.
What happened? And we then just substitute that into the equation.
So we're going to substitute in. All double dot and, um, so forth, and then right out in full.
Yeah. Damping constant, um, minus J.
To most. That's all equal to him.
Yep. So we can then rearrange simplify that.
And what's quite handy is that each one of these. Is equal to.
Oh, yeah. You see what's happening there?
So we can then rearrange this. Oh, and we can put that as a function of frequency.
Simplify it. From following pretty straightforward mathematical methods for solving a differential equation.
And now we have an equation that gives us the.
Displacement are as a function of applied electric field and the frequency that we draw.
I think it's uh, and for this, I kind of rearrange this in such a way that I've gathered together the omega naught squared,
the resonant frequency and omega of the frequency that we're driving it to,
and that just, um, it's quite handy way to write it,
because this is the difference between the frequency that you're driving the system and the resonant frequency.
And this is quite often referred to as the detuning to and how far you are of resonance.
So what happens when omega is equal to omega naught?
Displacement is its maximum. Yeah, you'll see that.
So that's why it was just convenient to lump those two things together.
So we solve the differential equation by picking this solution.
And I guess you might kind of think well how did he know to pick that solution.
And it's always a bit of a trick to know what solution to pick one is only a differential equation.
But we've chosen this one because this is the one that we want the solution for.
Yeah. So we make this assumption that our electric field is going to be of the form of a sine wave.
And that's why that equation for sine wave has one of the solutions.
Yeah. So I guess in theory, if you had another electric field that you were applying, which is like a triangle wave,
one square wave, and you wanted to know the solution, you could do exactly the same.
Would it be a nightmare? Yeah, but it's because our electric field is going to be a sine wave at frequency omega.
That's why I picked that solution. Everyone follow.
And you've seen this trick before. Know you've people nodding.
So now we've got this solution to our equation of motion.
We can then stop rearranging it so we can rearrange it for the charge displacement or.
So we can now get our on its own on the left hand side.
And we've got this function say o as a function of frequency.
We can see how the amplitude of displacement varies as a function of frequency.
And it's all down to this tuning term. So as the difference between omega naught and omega increases, all get smaller.
Yeah. The next step we're going to do is we want to look at the electric dipole moment.
So mu is equal to q times the displacement.
Um so we can then substitute in that give and rearrange.
So we've now got an extra Q on the right hand side.
So we've now got the electric moment as a function of frequency.
We're trying to get to the point where we've got the susceptibility all on its own on the left hand side,
and the next step is to look at this alpha, the polarized ability of a single atom.
Yeah. So we now substitute this guy in. That just means we lose the E on the right hand side.
So we've now got alpha as a function of frequency the polarized ability of a single atom.
And as we've mentioned, unless you've got an isotropic material which which we don't really have very often, it's going to be a tensor.
So you've got all these elements inside alpha.
And this just tells you how easy it is to polarize this particular one atom in its environment for an applied electric field.
So you can break down alpha alpha and move into X, y and z components as you can with your electric field.
And this everything contained in here tells you how the two map onto each other.
So when you apply electric fields at different polarizations and measure the
response that tells you about how things are orientated within your materials,
and then we can move finally towards the polarization vector p as a function of frequency.
And this is the polarization per unit volume. So we're summing over all those individual polarizations over Apple TV.
So we then move to this equation. And we know that the relationship between p and electric field is is given by this constant
Silom not multiplied by the polarized susceptibility tensor which is what we want to achieve.
So again we can then insert. This into the previous equation.
And then we then end up with a relationship. Our electric susceptibility as a function of frequency is given by this equation.
And I can follow that. Yep.
So we just sold the differential equation to give us the the dependence of the displacement on frequency.
And once we had that it was really easy to then move towards the susceptibility.
Yeah. So the displacement tells us how the strength of the dipole moment is just.
Um we moved from the top. We moved from the.
Um. The dipole moment through to polarized ability of a single atom, and then the polarized political unit volume.
And that lets us arrive at time. Yeah. If we follow.
So we've now got this relationship for the electric polarized ability.
And it has a little E on it because we're just considering with the electric polarized ability.
So how easy it is to polarize the electrons in our material.
And it's we're gonna find out in a minute.
There are other types of polarized affinity that we shouldn't exploit to give us different properties of the material.
So. Oh, and finally, just sometimes people take this constant that we have out the front of that equation and call it the plasma frequency,
and that plasma frequency is the resident frequency, that free cloud of electrons, which was like that.
But that's that's just a little aside. So we can plot our electric susceptibility this time in a bit more detail.
So we've got the same kind of graph that we looked at before. We've got the DC displacement.
If you apply a static electric field to your material you're just going to displace the charges by giving them out.
Just like when you push the person with a kind of static force, they just get displaced by a certain amount.
If we drive our electrons on resonance, which means that the driving force is 90 degrees out of phase displacement,
we want resonance and we get the biggest amplitude and the biggest susceptibility value.
So here omega naught is equal to omega. So the thing on the bottom is just this guy this term here.
And that's that's the maximum value that we get.
And then if we go way up to much much higher frequency, we're driving at 180 degrees out to phase with a displacement.
The system can't respond. And we don't get we don't get any response.
Susceptibility then just drops off. So we have a graph that tells us how easy it is to polarize the material as a function of frequency.
Yeah. So for given materials depending on the environment that the electrons are in.
And that's the that's the properties of the dielectric material, the properties of the molecules and the molecular environment.
That's what governs how easy it is to drive a polarization given by this frequency.
Everyone follow that.
So pretty straightforward, starting from the kind of theory with harmonic oscillators and then moving kind of through the same derivation,
solving that differential equation.
And then really just starting from the displacement, or just using some very simple equations that allow us to get to this point.
Yeah. So the one that we derived was the electric polarize ability.
We looked at electrons contained within the parabolic potential.
As we're going to learn later. There were different types of polarize ability that we can exploit to get a light matter interaction.
So the electric polarization this is time along the x axis.
So we've got ten to the -15. What's what.
What are the units of ten -15 seconds. It's that femtoseconds so of on the scale of femtoseconds.
We have electric polarized electronic polarizations.
And if you remember when we were talking about the kind of the person on the swing and we would kind of say that it has a resonant frequency,
that it likes to respond. And if we try and shake the person too quickly, they can't respond fast enough.
This is exactly what we're looking at here in terms of charges.
So if we look at just electrons on their own, electrons can respond very quickly to a driving force because they're very light.
Yeah.
So electronic polarization by just taking an electron and just moving it, that's about the fastest thing that has that fastest thing that can happen.
So it's on the scale of around kind of femtoseconds to maybe 0.1 of a femtosecond.
So that happens very fast. The next type of polarization that we're going to have that comes along is atomic polarization.
So this time, rather than just taking an electron and shaking it backwards and forwards,
this time we want to take atoms that are contained within the potential molecules and shake the atoms.
So this happens, as you can see on a slower timescale, because the atoms have much more mass than the electrons, a lot more mass.
So if you want to kind of go back to this analogy, if you kind of physically pushing this thing on the spring with the electrons,
it happens extremely quickly with the atoms that have been slower because the charges associated with moving an atom contains forward mass.
Yeah. So if this happens of the order.
So somewhere, somewhere around ten to the -12 seconds.
What's ten to the -12? Repeat.
Picoseconds. So atomic polarization happens on the order of picoseconds.
And then moving it down to slower times we have orientation polarization.
So this is kind of taking molecules and rotating them changing that orientation slower.
Still sit down to kind of ten to the -five seconds.
And then when we get to kind of of the order of many, many seconds like ten, five seconds, we're talking about kind of um, electro polarization.
So actually inducing kind of charge collection on plates, for example.
So we have this time scale showing how different interactions from different oscillations are affected by the time scale.
So if we think about this graph, can you explain how this relates to the wavelength dependence of each type of contrast mechanism,
whether it's ice related, visible or infrared absorption in materials?
So if we were to flip, let's say we want to just change this axis or if we will, if we convert time to frequency.
So frequency is inversely related to time. If we now flip that x axis.
So we've got the same graph. But we're now plotting on a different scale.
So a log scale. So we've got ten to the -15 a femtosecond.
If we flip that into frequency we can see that those electronic transitions occur in the UV to visible range.
So we've already calculated that if we're driving electrons connected to atoms.
And we did the hot looked at the hydrogen model. We calculated that comes out in the UV.
I think it's like 122 nanometers. If we can find these electrons into a into a larger potential well, in a atom,
a molecule where the atoms have these poly bonds between them, we can get absorption in the visible range.
And if we look at the atomic polarization.
So we're actually kind of shaking atoms or bonds within molecules, we can now see that this happens on the infrared time scale.
Infrared wavelengths go urging into the microwave range.
And then these kind of orientation ones happen on the kind of.
Millimeter which a micron length scale. Yeah.
So this kind of links in to tell us how the kind of the president system that we're looking at,
how that relates to the frequency that we drive the system out.
So these electronic polarizations that we've said that gives rise to color through absorption like dyes.
We have an electronic absorption. We can pick molecules that have colors to enable us to look at the sample.
We can excite fluorescence. And this gives us a very good contrast mechanism in the visible.
But there's no chemical specificity. So the atomic polarization where we have atoms connected together with spring.
This happens in molecules. And this is a property of those molecules which is unique to those molecules.
So if you take like your molecule and you might be looking for something like ordinary water or some sort of carbohydrates within your sample,
you have a unique pair of atoms bound together, which is unique to the molecule.
And the frequency at which they oscillate at is something that tells you about the chemistry of that molecule.
Yeah. So when we're dealing with electrons,
the electrons don't really tell us anything about the molecule that they're in other than the length over which they can find.
Whereas the wavelength for atomic polarization tells us a little bit more.
It gives us a unique response that depends on the combination of atoms in that molecule.
And that's what we're going to look at in a second. So we've looked at linear or conventional light matter interactions.
We derived the polarization of susceptibility as a function of frequency using the Lorenz oscillator model.
And now we're starting to look at how this links to contrast.
So understanding how these polarization mechanisms relate with wavelength and how there's different wavelength ranges.
That is something about samples. So electronic resonances don't contain anything that tells us about the sample as much once ago.
So now what we're going to look at is a different mechanism.
I completely lost my point to the.
Okay. So now we're going to quickly get. We can get headstart on tomorrow's lecture because we get a long one.
So now we're going to start to look at how we can access chemical specificity, which is really the goal that we want to achieve.
So shaking electrons gets a very nice strong response in the optical part of the electromagnetic spectrum.
But as we've looked at, the response of those electrons isn't tied to the chemical environment that that those atoms are in.
All it tells us about is the length scale over which those electrons are confined.
And that's not that doesn't tell us anything about the molecular properties of the molecule,
other than certain combinations of bonds that could give rise to that length scale of confinement.
So now we're going to look at how we can move on to the next polarization that we
looked at the atomic polarization to see how that gives us chemical specificity.
So we're moving on to this this range called vibrational spectroscopy.
Um do you like my cartoons? Start this lecture, by the way, with the stupid touch.
So this idea is if you listen to molecules carefully, they'll tell you everything.
So this is kind of so one of the ideas behind vibrational spectroscopy, you get this very weak interaction.
And if you know how to tune into and listen to that vibrational interaction of the bonds, you can learn about the chemical makeup of your sample.
So we're going to introduce this idea of molecular vibrational resonance,
kind of setting the scene for how we want to do this with nonlinear optical spectroscopy.
And we're going to introduce the two types of vibrational spectroscopy.
One is infrared absorption. And the other is this thing called Roman scattering.
We're going to look at the fundamental principles. Look at some examples of how you can use this to get image contrast.
And then we're going to look at well we're going to kind of slag it off really.
We're going to explain why people don't use this for an imaging contrast mechanism.
The limitations of it. And obviously this leads on to why we want to use nonlinear interactions to enable us to do imaging much better.
So this is the recap of what we just covered.
So obviously this would be like tomorrow's lecture. But we don't need to recap because we've just done it.
So we just derived this guy the electronic susceptibility.
And then we ended on this slide kind of saying this is where the electronic polarizations happen.
This is where the vibrational polarizations happen.
No chemical specificity. This is where the chemical specificity is at.
Yep. In the in the atomic polarizations. So vibrational spectroscopy is a massive field of research and kind of chemistry biology biochemistry.
It's kind of where physics meets chemistry and biology.
So the key is that bonds between atoms vibrate and the frequency at which they vibrate is unique to the molecule that they're in.
So by probing these, you do get a vast amount of chemical information about your sample.
So the electronic polarizations that we were thinking about probing when we were looking at dyes and fluorophores,
there's no chemical information in that physics like matter interaction, whether it's vibrational spectroscopy.
When we're probing the vibration of atoms and molecules, everything is linked to the chemistry of the molecule.
Yeah. So chemistry is relevant and chemistry level.
Yeah. So chemistry is all about bonds between atoms and how they link together with molecules and how those molecules interact.
So the idea is we want to harness that live matter interaction to get contrast.
Because by doing this we get this kind of chemical fingerprint of our sample that we can use to get
really nice information about sample on the microscopic scale that we can get with dyes and presents.
So let's look at atomic polarization.
So it's the same equation that we looked at before.
Except this time instead of taking electrons and dragging them away from the charge center by applying an electric field,
this time we're taking two atoms. So we've got two heavy charges bound together by.
We can have both as a spring. So.
We've got two atoms with an equal electronegativity.
So two atoms of different different charge. And we have a spring between them.
And that's the spring. We're modeling the chemical bonds between those two atoms.
So that has a unique strength depending on what type of bullet it is.
And the vibrations of the atoms result in the position of the nuclei and the electrons following those atoms.
Yeah. Of the nuclei. So you've got these negative charge clouds.
Again we're interacting with the electrons.
But because the electrons are bound to the atoms, if they're vibrating back and forwards by these two masses on the spring.
So the natural clouds and as we've already looked at this vibration, you know,
this polarization through atomic and atomic polarized quality happens on the picosecond time scale.
So if you're ever unsure, electrons are the lightest particle charged particles that we've got.
That's the fastest interaction that you can have. So that happens on the femtosecond time scale.
The next the next unit down is picoseconds.
That's what the atomic polarization happens at. And the reciprocal of picoseconds falls in the infrared frequency range.
So if you convert picoseconds into a frequency you get in the infrared range.
As I said we've got two mechanisms IO and Raman. So for infrared absorption, you have, um.
Changes in the shape of the molecule. Stretching. Bending, rotation.
And these all give you unique unique vibrational transitions.
So this one is the next one. So I've been to lots of conferences on vibrational spectroscopy.
And the kind of classic thing that people talk about is a kind of water molecule.
And they kind of say, imagine my head is that the oxygen in my hands is hydrogen.
You've got all these different stretching modes, the talks that I can come to that they can rock.
And you get all these like professor standing up there, these like weird dance systems which play with different lots of motions that you can get,
but you have a whole combination of stretching, bending, rotations around the bonds.
And each one of these corresponds to a displacement, and it has a unique spring constant associated with it.
And then the ratio between the masses of the two atoms.
Also is is something that specific to that particular comet.
So you have these unique resonances for molecules that give you a huge amount of information.
So if we're talking about infrared radiation, we get a change in the dipole moment.
We've moved the atoms from that kind of equilibrium position.
We push them out to the non equilibrium position. We get this absorption in the information in the infrared range.
We have a change in the dipole moment as it vibrates or rotates.
So it only occurs when the incoming infrared photon has sufficient energy.
Because we're dealing with the kind of quantum mechanical scale.
So we have these allowed vibrational states where we have the change in energy is equal with my pentagon is equal to h f.
Yeah. Are you happy with this quantum mechanics.
So going back to the Blonsky diagrams, if we we've got the solid blue lines, has the electronic energy levels,
and then we've got the thinner number of lines as the vibrational energy levels.
So we can plot these infrared transitions on the same diagram.
And as we kind of hinted at when we were looking at fluorescence,
it's the relaxation for these vibrational states that gives you a shift in wavelength.
That means you get presents emitted at different ways. Right. Yeah.
So. Electronic transitions.
Much bigger energy difference. Long arrow.
More energy. Higher frequency in the optical range.
Short arrows of the vibrational transitions.
Much lower energy occurring in the infrared range. And that's what the arrow.
Shut up. Yep. And then rotational levels.
Even smaller still. So we go back to the harmonic oscillator, which we just looked at.
So I don't need to explain what's going on on this slide. But this time instead of taking an electron bound to an atom,
we've got two atoms of two different masses, M1 and M2 bound together by an atomic bombs.
And we model that as a spring with constant k and we can get this parabolic potential.
So exactly the same situation where our resonant frequency is equal to k divided by the mass square root it.
But this time. We've got two masses, so we have to take something called the reduced mass, which is just m1 times m2 divided by m one plus m2.
And that's how you model harmonic oscillator with two masses connected by a spring.
Did you cover that last year when you looked at how might you have few people using.
So should be familiar. So if you know the masses.
And, you know, the spring constant. You can work out the unique frequency that you expect to get for a particular point.
And we've got this thing called the periodic table.
And that allows us to calculate or work out the mass of all the atoms that we're going to come across.
Yeah. So if you know the mass of your atom, we know the mass of one atomic mass unit, and we can work out the mass of our two atoms.
And hopefully people have also measured the spring constants for a particular bond.
So for a single bond it's around five times ten to the five grams per second squared.
Double bonds twice that and triple bonds three times that approximately.
So knowing you've got this kind of periodic table of masses and you know the spring constants,
you can work out approximately the vibrational frequency or infrared absorption that you expect to get to particular chemical bonds in a molecule.
And these are relatively unique. So you get this unique fingerprint absorption for a given molecular species.
I think we've come to the end, so we'll pick this up tomorrow. Has anyone done the kind of astrophysics model which was.
I guess you haven't because you picked this one.
So if anyone was interested in astrophysics, this is also used in astrophysics, where they look at kind of infrared absorption of molecules in space.
And you can see the lines missing. And it tells you what stuff made of what the sun what the light pass through.
So here we're really probing the chemistry.
So instead of just looking at electrons bound to atoms, which don't tell us anything about the chemistry here,
this unique combination of M1, M2, and K tells us something about the chemistry.
And we can look at how this works in a bit more detail tomorrow. Okay.
So see you tomorrow. So this just this sheet of paper is just the right.
One. And.
That's what I. Like.
Did you get your voice? Yeah. Yeah. Did I.
Really like that? Yeah. Yeah.
I don't think you don't want to do that.
Uh, I just thought you might ask the question.
I don't know, because I'd rather not.
Okay, so tutorial tomorrow.
Thank you so much. I want to say something I have.
To say for the first time, I got to do my opinion.
I just like how you use your time to work something out.
Yeah, and I just look at these.
Or you transform opinions. Like image validation.
Yeah, that's been quite, quite interesting. Has I'm sure people come for analysis,
which is one of the properties in terms of is there's so much work being done
on kind of image analysis for medical images and machine learning and stuff,
but it will be quite interesting to see how the virtual actually looks.
So to us, how it kind of appears on the problem for us.
So I.