That's been cruelty day to day outside. So quite a.
Bit of. Violence during the weekend under the Army training in Salisbury.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. I.
Yeah. True.
Yes. That's true. Is that correct?
Yeah. Okay. So. You get a picture?
I guess so. Yeah, I guess you don't going to be able to afford it just because the completion of.
Something but didn't because it's overlap, right?
Oh, yeah. Uh, Scott.
Yeah. Scott. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So.
I just realized I missed this tutorial. Yeah. Did you like it?
Yeah. It's just for sports today. Oh, I put invoice out first and then move them.
So maybe you could get the objects. I think that's what I said. Oh, I'm not expecting.
I think this is from today's tutorial. So that's pretty much it's meant to be.
Well, I got this today. I think that's why there was just.
No. I don't see that. Okay. Everyone else.
Um. So just. Maybe double check.
So there we go. You. Know what I mean?
Yeah. So. Pretty much. Yeah.
I mean, that's one. Yeah, I, I forgot I was that.
Whoops. Well, that's because it's the tensor and the 20. Two.
Oh, damn. You messed up. But that. Doesn't look right.
More American soldiers in training. That's not good.
Never is good. That's very good. Hi, guys. How's it going?
Same because I got another demo for you today, so don't get too excited.
This isn't five liters of gin and tonic. Uh, okay, so yesterday we said optical imaging part one, and we were looking at where contrast comes from,
how we can use the intrinsic properties of the molecules of the material to generate contrast.
I'm really the take home message was if you want to work in the optical region,
not many molecules that you want to look at a pigmented, they're not necessarily pigmented.
And the conventional way to get chemical contrast is to apply stains or dyes.
And the chemical specificity is relying on the chemistry and the quality rather than the physics of the light interaction.
What we've interested in is using physics to try and access the chemistry, and that's where it gets quite interesting in this office here.
Alright, so so today we're looking at the spatial properties of imaging, how deep we can go and ideally how we can form imaging.
And. So we're going to revisit the idea of spatial resolution.
You covered spatial resolution last year when you did Waves and Optics.
Maybe you did it in the the one which is when the first in the astrophysics space, when you look at telescopes and angular resolution,
which was that one called astrophysics, you covered it in astrophysics module, and you've also covered the stuff that you need in A-levels as well.
We get to find something called the point spread function.
Um, and then we're going to look at how we achieve 3D imaging inside 3D materials using something called confocal detection.
And then we're going to look at how the big problem scattering is and start thinking about how that affects our ability to see inside objects.
So I kind of mentioned yesterday that everything that we're going to do with no video optics can really only be generally applied in a microscope,
because you get this really tight focus of light within a microscope, which enables you to achieve the high light intensities.
So we're going to be looking at small stuff. We're going to be looking at microscopes inside of focus.
And today we're going to start looking at spatial resolution,
which is really defining the smallest features that we can resolve within our microscope system,
and then start to look at how we can do microscopy in 3D objects.
Because as we talked about yesterday, he holds up a kind of standard A-level GCSE experiment with a kind of piece of onion skin.
And it's very thin and you just shine the light through it. You get a nice crisp picture.
Okay. We're going to look at what happens when you don't have something that's nice.
So you should all be familiar with this term called numerical aperture if you'll come across this before.
Put your hand up if this is new to you. Oh, okay.
You must have. It should have been your A-level syllabus. Can you.
Does it not ring a bell? You've got a numerical average of five years before kind of people.
And so people are still thinking about this now. Completely. Anyway, we'll go back over again.
So numerical aperture is defined by this equation here.
And it's determined by the refractive index of the medium in which the light is propagating and the angular aperture of your imaging system.
So in terms of a microscope we defined the image in any imaging system.
But in terms of this this microscope objective, the numerical aperture is given by the the refractive index multiplied by the sine of this angle.
Yeah. So for a given. So you've got the diameter of the lens and the distance from the sample.
How can you make numerically much bigger. What things what levers can you pull to get high numerical aperture.
Just looking at this picture, how can I make a bigger increase here?
Yeah. So it's proportional to the sine of that angle house up.
So if you want to stop working you can make alpha bigger.
And there are two ways you can do that. You can bring the make the lens closer to the sample so you have a shorter focal length.
Or you could have a larger diameter. That's the both of those things are going to make alpha bigger.
But there's a limit to the kind of angle that you can get the limit to pretty much touching the sample.
So the other lever that you can pull is to change the refractive index.
So if it's in air we've got refractive index of one.
But most most microscope objectives don't work.
Uh if we want really high numerical apertures that would be designed to be used with water or with oil.
So you put a drop of emulsion oil between the sample on top of your microscope slide and underneath the microscope objective.
And that replaces the air with this droplet of oil.
So it also has an index about 1.2.
And oils have an index of maybe 1.3 ish or maybe 1.4, depending on that's in the new silicone oil.
Refractive index. So when you pick up the ball like a microscope objective, it has the magnification on it.
It has numerical aperture and it tells you whether it works in all.
So that tells you what you need to know. So there are three mathematical concepts.
None of these are new. You've covered them before that we're going to look at that.
Really tell us how we use this to work out the smallest features that we can see inside our image.
So the first one is something called the air disk.
If you remember this from last year. Yeah.
You did this in the astrophysics. So the area disk so you can go back and revise it.
But it's everything you need to know is on this slide.
So it tells us about the optimal optimal focus point of light which can be determined by circling the aperture.
And you get a bright spot of light in the center with these wings, which are a diffraction pattern kind of in out towards the edges.
You've seen this before. Yeah. You've made it with kind of passing light.
You sense which apertures you get this diffraction pattern, and 94% of the light is contained within the big bright spot in the middle.
And then the rest of it kind of dies off as you go out into these higher orders of diffraction.
So you get this oscillating pattern. So we're not really too bothered about the the waves because they don't contain much intensity.
So in the area disk we're interested in the diameter or radius of this central spot.
You focus the light too in the center of your of your diffraction pattern.
And that's governed by well, the radius half of the diameter of this ball is 1.22 lambda over d.
And you can derive that this 1.22 comes from some quite complicated works that they did on Bessel functions.
But we're not going to look into that. We're just going to take it for granted. It's a constant of 1.22 lambda of D.
So if you want to make. The spot smaller in order to resolve smaller things, or to focus the light down to a smaller spot.
What do you need to do? What do you need to keep? Looking at that equation.
So 1.22 is a constant or the other two things. Wavelength.
Yeah. So is proposed the diameter is proportional to wavelength.
So you could use a shorter wavelengths make lambda smaller. And that makes the spot that you focus the light down to smaller.
And d remember is the diameter of your lens. So if we make the diameter bigger is proportional to one over D.
So the scope gets smaller. Yep. So bigger numerical aperture bigger diameter lens or smaller wavelength.
And we can also define this thing in 3D.
So you can you can plot this this this this this this airy discount in 3D in the Z direction as well.
And in 3D this is known as the point spread function. It's telling us the intensity of light when it's focused down to the spot in our system.
So that was the first kind of work that was done in 1835.
And then in 1873, this German guy called up a staff to work in microscopes, probably independently.
And his theory was to look at what the smallest spot you can achieve in different optical systems.
And he defined this lateral diameter of the central spot practically was half lambda times that needed.
So that was the next step to come along. And then in the axial direction.
So in the z direction down along the plane of the axis of the imaging system, it's two lambda divided by the x squared.
So the final bit and this is you would have done this in astrophysics.
Yeah. So when you looked at the ray criterion so it by the end of the 1800s kind of break for the whole lot together and then said,
well, actually if we want to find the limit at which you can resolve two objects and they still appear as two separate objects.
So previously I had just come to a smaller spot.
You could image or focus light down two and then really kind of refined Atlas Blessing came up with this kind of diffraction limited ray criterion,
but said, actually, if you've got two objects, we want to tell the difference for these two objects.
They only appear in our image on the eyepiece of the microscope as two separate objects.
If the diffraction pattern that we get,
if the maximum of the diffraction pattern separated by D is such that the minimum
of the spot on the left coincides with the maximum of the spots on the right.
If they get any closer than that, they just look like one big blob.
So this is really just the limit at which we say that we can resolve them.
So if D is greater than that distance from the central maximum versus minimum, they're result right on the limit.
That's where you can resolve them. And if D is any smaller than that diffraction limit it's just one big blob and you can't tell the difference.
You remember this. So you covered this in astrophysics. Yeah. Perfect.
So you then in your astrophysics module you applied the very criterion and you did it as a function of angle.
Yeah. So when you're working kind of with astronomical samples so you're looking at the sky,
you don't you can't really work with numerical aperture and a focal distance because you don't really have the things a long, long way away.
You don't know exactly how far away it is, what you can define very well.
It's the angle that one object is from another.
So we don't know how far apart they are, and we don't know how far away they are.
But we do know the angle that they subtended the sky when we look at them through a telescope.
So the very criterion when you first visit it again, you've got this, kind of this, this diffraction pattern.
You've got this, this, this, this equation here that tells us the distance from the set to maximum minimum.
And we're told that the minimum angle that we can resolve is given by 1.22 lambda over t.
You remember this? Yeah. So that's kind of a start here. Is there any questions there?
Uh, yes. We'll see that in a second. So D is the diameter of your telescope.
If you're doing an angle looking at the sky and less than the distance between the two objects,
if you're looking at the stars in the night sky, you don't really know how far.
To objects of his own, how far away they are. But you do know the answer to that.
But that doesn't really.
It's not very useful when we're dealing in a microscope, because we want to deal with distance, and we want to deal with numerical aperture.
So we can we can derive this equation in the red box.
So you probably noticed that we've been putting stuff in red boxes.
If stuff in a red box, it's something that you will be able to derive.
So we'll derive it. Okay.
So we're going to convert from the the diffraction limit in terms of angle to the diffraction limit in terms of distance between two objects.
So we need to remember our numerical aperture and sine alpha.
Um we've got object one and object two and they're separated by distance.
Let's see. And. We've got the focal length of our lens.
So both of those things are very well defined.
Um, we want to find the smallest distance between the two objects in which they're still resolved as two objects.
That's a detail. So going back to our original equation for diffraction we define this feature
minimum the minimum angle feature here that we can resolve between the two objects.
That's what we're used to calculating. And how can we bring right feet up.
So theta is d over the focal length.
But d is the smallest distance that we can resolve. And we know that that's 1.22 lambda d.
But big D is the diameter of our lens. So this is our kind of lens system.
So we've got the diameter D. Half of that angle is alpha.
That's the focal length by definition. We can say that tan alpha is digging into us.
Yeah. So big D is equal to two half term.
Help them to just simple rearranging. So we know that d f is equal to 1.22 lambda.
Now we can substitute in d. To 10,000 from the FS cancel activity to no safety.
I'm in the distance is 1.61 and five five and.
10,000. And then the kind of assumption that we make is that time.
Alpha is approximately the same as sine alpha.
This new angle which means. Approximately 1.61 lambda and sine alpha, which is the same as 2.61 lambda.
Yeah. So we just did write the equation on the screen to convince ourselves that we can convert that angle by numerical aperture.
So for microscope lens, you're not going to sit there with some calipers measuring the diameter of the lens or the focal length.
You buy a microscope objective with a given numerical aperture.
If you know the numerical aperture of the light, you can work out a subject that you can resolve.
So pretty straightforward stuff. Okay, so.
So I've convinced you all that this equation is just the conversion of the angular diffraction diffraction limit that you calculated last year.
And we've really kind of framed it in terms of numerical aperture. So again you've got control over the wavelength.
So smaller wavelength enables you to see smaller features within your sample.
And a bigger numerical aperture enables you again to see smaller things big.
And a small wavelength gives you a better spatial resolution.
So another point to mention is I kind of highlighted just how useful the Gaussian functions are going to be in this topic.
So there exists a mathematical function for this airy disc feature is a really horrible equation.
It's this kind of passing function. It's not very easy to work with, and we're only interested in the central part of the disc anyway.
So generally people just approximate that horrible Bessel function for a Gaussian.
And that's exactly what we're going to do. If you fit a Gaussian to the central part, it's a pretty good approximation.
And we're not interested in this anyway. So later on we're going to be working with modeling or using this,
this function as an approximation, just because it's a lot easier to work with this thing.
Yeah. Anyone going to work with that going. So if we go up with Gaussian approximation.
So let's see what happens when we apply this in practice.
So we looked at fluorescence yesterday and didn't use diagrams.
This was the name of this diagram. Begins with J please.
Kindness. To Blonsky.
Yeah. So what do the solid straight arrows correspond to in this diagram.
So solid arrows. What do they correspond to. So these are the optical transitions.
So we're starting from the ground state. We come in with a blue photon.
And we excite the electron up into the first excited state but has more energy than the first electronic excited state.
And that tiny little bit of extra energy goes into vibrational energy levels.
And then the wiggly arrow is known optical transitions.
So this is vibrational energy transfer.
So essentially the excitation is getting lost into heat thermal excitation into the sample.
And then at some point it actually decides it's had enough bring up that it drops down and it emits another photon.
And that photon has shorter legs.
It's low energy. It has a long wavelength.
So excited emits blue light and emits green light.
And the difference in energy between the blue and green photon has gone into vibrational relaxation in that molecule.
Yeah. You remember this yesterday. And this is great because we can take we can take a big light bulb, one light source.
We can put filter in front of the excitation filter, which only passes the blue light through.
We shine that onto the sample with our microscope objective.
All the light comes back. Some of the a lot of the blue light is reflected, along with a small amount of the fluorescent emission.
And we've tagged the thing that we're interested in the molecule with these, with these molecules that get excited by blue and green.
And then it goes onto this mirror here. And this is a special type of mirror for the dichroic or light dying colored mirror.
It transmits the blue light that reflects only the green light.
We then have a filter that only passes green light in front of the eyepiece.
We look down the microscope, and then you can see these lovely patterns where the thing that you were looking
for in your particular sample has been labeled with the green fluorescent dye.
And it was the biochemistry of the tags that gave us that chemical specificity, not just like that interaction.
So that works really well if you've got a thin sample.
So if you've got a very nice thin sample of biological cells, say,
one piece of onion skin or very thin slice of tissue, and you place that on the focus of your mind,
of your microscope, you get this lovely in-focus picture, but like a stained glass window and everything looks great down the eyepiece.
The problem is, if you take something that's a bit thicker and this is like a big slab of freshly labeled mouse kidney,
if you look at something a bit thicker, it looks blurred.
So the the image plate is the black line and everything out of place, whether it was above that,
the focal plane of interest or below it comes back and it reaches the eyepiece,
but it's out of focus because it's not at the right focal length under the microscope objective.
So it's not very good at looking at thick objects because the stuff doesn't follow blurs out the signal.
And there's a really clever workaround that you can do to overcome this, which is called a confocal detection.
And this diagram explains the controversial principle.
So in the confocal principle you can do it with a a light bulb and a filter.
But you wouldn't get enough light intensity. So people tend to do it with lasers because you get very strong directional light sources.
You focus the laser beam of a laser excitation through a pinhole, a very small diameter aperture,
a couple of microns in diameter, in diameter, and you shine the light through that pinhole.
Everything else is the same. We go through the dichroic mirror, we go into the sample,
we excite the fluorescence from above and below and in the plane of interest that we want to image.
But the really clever thing about the confocal detection is that you have another pinhole,
which is at the same focal distance from the objective of the optical imaging system that the excitation pinhole,
so that excitation and emission pinholes are confocal at a safe distance.
And if we follow the black line, which is the light that's focused through the optical system,
and then the light that comes back is emitted from that focus, the focal plane, only the black line makes it through the pinhole.
Everything that was emitted from above and below the plane of interest, you can see gets blocked by a pinhole.
So we've rejected out of plane emission from that sample.
We can no longer look at it with a hole. It's because we don't get an image anymore and we have to do something.
Point scanning. So you require that light intensity at every single point and then move the sample around and that 1 in 3 dimensions,
and you record the light intensity on a computer every x, y, z coordinate.
And then you can build up an image. So here's our mouse kidney.
That's what it looked like when we didn't have the pinhole in place.
And we were just looking at it with our eyes on the camera.
If we then do the point scanning method, you can see we now get this lovely, crisp virtual section of a mouse kidney.
So we haven't sliced it, but we've removed all of the fluorescence which was emitted from above and below that really thin optical section.
Yep. You'll see how that works. This is pretty cool isn't it?
Yeah. So you can recreate an optical section within a big slab of biological tissue.
And it looks exactly the same as if you sliced it into a thin piece of tissue, the thickness of a big onion skin.
But we haven't done that. We've used this thing called virtual optical sectioning based on the confocal principles.
So scanning a sample round in three dimensions is quite slow.
You've got like a big mass of the tissue has mass associated with it.
So there's a limit to how fast you can do that without the whole thing jiggling around.
And all the time you put tissues in bits of the gel.
You can see if you were to move it around very quickly, you can just fine the movement.
So instead of moving the sample, we move the laser beam.
So we place a galvanometer, something called a galvanometer scanner just before the objective.
And a Galvao scanner. It's just a pair of mirrors, one which oscillates in the Y direction and one which oscillates in the Z direction.
And by doing that, we're just creating this raster scan pattern of the laser beam across the sample sample.
Sit still and the laser beam moves backwards and forwards across the sample.
The computer that acquires the intensity at the detector is the same computer that's controlling the.
Mission of the x, y mirrors. So the computer knows exactly what coordinate the laser beam is at any one time, because it knows where the mirrors are,
and then it can build up the image very quickly based on recording the light intensity as it scans backwards and forwards.
And you can do this video, right. You can do a really, really quick image acquisition.
You can move the sample up and down. So every time you dump one x, y raster scan, you move the sample down, take another one.
And by doing that you can build up 3D images of cells and tissue, materials, all sorts of things.
By scanning this laser spot in 3D around your sample,
and you can multiple fluorescent ties in the sample and have multiple detectors with different felts in front of them.
So you can have it's different chemical species and you can map them out in 3D.
And this is the kind of state of the art in biological microscopy.
So you can see one of these on the left and towards the end of the lecture course.
And you can see it working. We can do 3D scanning. Um, and it all works quite well, but it does have limitations.
So it requires fluorescent labels, which is one problem.
So we talked about what were the issues with labeling samples.
Yeah the Renaissance glasses high have changed the.
Yeah.
So the fluorescent dyes quite often the same size or bigger than the thing you want to image if you want to image proteins, fluorescent dyes a toy.
So I put in that time tag will want you to tackle the elephant.
If you wanted to image the fatty acid of a drug molecule, for example, is the equivalent of trans fats on the DNA.
So we can change our behavior. And the other thing which we did, I just mentioned yesterday, is in a lot of cases,
the molecule that you want to image, it's in a tissue where the the tissue itself doesn't allow water to be soluble.
It's not kind of water soluble. It could be a kind of hydrophobic environment where it's very difficult to actually apply
solution of dye and to get it to interact with the molecule you want to interact with.
So staining it can actually be very problematic.
And so a lot of the pictures that I showed you for the for the cancer diagnosis, but then you could talk to the person they have to make a slice.
They have to then remove all of the kind of lipid, some natural fatty acids from the tissue,
so that you can apply the water based dyes to it and then you replace it.
So by the time you look at it, you can change the charge mutation.
But the thing we're going to look at today is it's got very poor depth penetration.
And this is because of scattering. So I kind of mentioned yesterday that, you know, if if you're looking into kind of biological tissues,
you may think that absorption is going to prevent you from seeing inside beneath your skin, but it's actually scattering.
Yeah. So my skin I've not got time this time of year.
My skin's going power has white, no pigment in my skin, and it's reflecting all of the wavelength of light equally.
Scattering is the kind of predominant penetration.
So if we were to try to do confocal microscopy in a piece of tissue,
we've got this diagram here that confocal detection excitation pinhole emission pinhole was this miracle was a special name.
Dichroic mirror, so it passes the wavelengths that we want to excite the dye with, and it reflects the emission wavelength from the pin out.
If we follow our ray diagram down, the light which is emitted from the focal plane follows the black line and it makes it through the pinhole.
If we have some scattering in the sample.
So we've got a scattering sample. And most samples are scattered then made up of logical tissues.
You can see that we're ignoring the light which is emitted out of plane.
But the stuff we want to keep is going to go.
The stuff that's actually emitted from where we want it to detect it from.
If that light undergoes a scattering event, it comes out at the wrong angle and it misses the pinhole.
So scattering removes light that we want to detect from the sample.
Yeah. And there's nothing we can do about that other than just crank up the intensity
of the laser to compensate for the tissue for the signal that we've lost.
And that's kind of okay if you if your sample is quite robust and it's not made out of anything, that's going to kind of burn.
So any type of biological tissue, if you're shining a high intensity blue light onto it, you're going to change.
You can burn, you're going to dehydrated, you're going to change things and it's not gonna last very long.
So this is a real problem. So let's go back to scattering.
So we kind of looked at this phenomena of ray scattering.
The reason the sky is blue.
So we've got this equation that tells us that the intensity of the scattered light is proportional to one over wavelength to the power of more.
Yeah. So because it's one over the wavelength, that means that shorter wavelengths light is going to get scattered more.
Yeah. And because it's one over the power of the wavelength, it means that's a given change of wavelength you get much bigger change in scattering.
Yeah. So if we were to double the wavelength of light, how would the scattering change?
So if you increase the wavelength, this is going to go down because it's inversely proportional I will factor.
So yeah a factor of 16. Yeah.
So doubling the wavelength reduces the scattering a huge amount.
So this explains why the sky is blue.
So when when we're looking up at the sky we're seeing all the scattered photons, the blue ones which have come out.
So likewise they're just scattered everywhere. And that's why the sky is blue when the sun's low on the horizon and we look directly towards the sun,
it looks red because we're seeing the red photons, which were scattered less because of the blue stuff.
And the green stuff has come outside. Yeah. So that explains why sky is blue and the sense.
I've got hopefully this this usually works. So said it's not gin and tonic this time.
Unfortunately, it's just water. And this is just normal milk.
This is just semi-skimmed milk I got from a supermarket.
Put in a positive image down to this. So what's milk made of?
Why is it white? Okay.
What makes milk white? There's no calcium in the milk.
So. Well, what's milk presumably made of? So it's an emulsion of basically fat and water cycle.
Tiny droplets of fat particles suspended in water.
And the reason it's white is because the interface between the oil, the lipids, the fat and the water, there's a refractive index mismatch.
And we get scattering from all these tiny particles.
Yeah. So you can kind of think of it as kind of bit like a cloud.
It's the same reason that the clouds are white because you've got tiny particles and they scatter the light.
So that's, that's the reason the milk's white is not the calcium.
So what I've got here is a torch. Just white light torch.
Yeah. So if I shine the light. So this is just water.
Just to convince you there's nothing special about the water. You can see the light traveling through.
Yes. So not very much scattering. We get this nice directional beam of light coming through the the tank of water.
Yeah. I can put a blue filter in front of it.
Yeah. You know what happens, right? Of red filter in front of it.
In both cases, the light travels through on scattered because it's just water constant refractive index and no scattering.
So I'm now going to add some milk. So we can make a cloud in in our water.
So you can see it's coming cloudy. Now this is why we kind of call it cloudy.
And the reason it's going cloudy is because these tiny particles have water in their lipids in that which are causing the light to be scattered.
So now if I take the torch, you can see we don't get this nice kind of pencil beam.
So much coming through the water, through the milk. It all looks a bit murky.
Yeah. And if I take the red filter.
You can kind of say you can just about make out the red pencil paint.
Yeah. And if I, if you look directly at the time, the torch from through the tank, can you see a red circle?
Yeah. You can sort of see that the, the attenuation as you go across the beam through the time, you can see the light intensity is dropping.
And that's because it's becoming scattered. Yeah. So now if I do this with blue light much shorter wavelengths.
So the red light was around 633 nanometres.
And this one, this one is 488m.
So not huge difference. You now see the difference in the appearance of the beam.
So from your side you still able to make out the blue. Just this scattering.
Blurry. Yeah, you can kind of see.
Now, if you look at the intensity of the light beam as it travels across the tank, it's sort of decaying, dropping off much quicker.
Yeah. So that's demonstrating how ray scattering affects the ability of different wavelengths to penetrate through scattering media.
And we've kind of observed that the difference between red and blue say 633 to 4,
eight eight, not much more than hundred nanometers is really affected.
Our ability to see through that, that scattering material.
Is everyone got an iPhone or a smartphone? Yeah, with a camera.
So turn your camera on. So this torch is an infrared torch.
So the wavelength of this one is 850 nanometers.
So almost double the wavelength of the blue light.
And if you just look at that, you can you'll see the red light coming through the torch just with your eyes.
Yeah. So you can all see that red dot. So 850 is right on the very edge of what we can perceive with our eyes.
But now, if you hold up your smartphones and look at look at the torch through your camera.
Can you see it? Is it that much brighter?
Yes, it's actually quite bright. Torch. Yeah, but to my eyes it doesn't look.
It just looks like a very dim light. So this is one of the reasons why working with near infrared light is extremely dangerous.
Because we've got a lot of lasers around this wavelength.
And when you look at the laser beam, it looks just like a laser pointer from the lecture theatre.
But because your eyes can see that it's actually pretty bright when you look at it under the infrared view.
So now hold your phones back up again and we'll see what happens when we shine through the tank of water.
What can you see now? You don't see much scattering of the beam across.
And if we look directly at the beam through the tank of water, can you see?
Can you see the circle of light from the other side?
Few people nodding. So can you guys see it?
Yeah. So when I can't see your camera. But it should look like it's completely, um, scattered.
You've got a nice well defined disk of light just travelling through time.
Yeah. So it's that in terms of the infrared light, there's pretty much no scattering going on through this tank of milky water,
because we've gone from 630 nanometers for the red light, up 200 nanometers to 850.
We can see that by moving it to that wavelength range. We've completely, almost completely done away with the scattering altogether.
So what does that tell you about kind of image if you want to image in this kind of scattering tissues.
What wavelength would you like to use. So if we look at this confocal microscopy.
Let me show you what a problem it is to get this scattering. If you could pick a wavelength what would you choose.
Mhm. So if you want to get rid of scattering go for infrared.
What's the problem with going to infrared. So this is our equation that tells us how scattering scales with wavelength.
This is the equation that tells you how our ability to resolve object scales with refractive index with wavelength.
So if we go to a long wavelength we can no longer see such small things.
Yeah, a most even bigger problem.
So if we were happy to kind of get rid of, kind of lose a bit of spatial resolution, so lose half of our resolving power to go deeper.
What's the more fundamental thing that we can't get around? Thinking back to yesterday's lecture.
Where does the contrast come from? So when we were looking at the kind of the contrast mechanisms that we looked at,
so things like absorption and fluorescence, they dictate the wavelength that we need to use to excite those mechanisms.
So if we want to image a fluorescent dye which gets excited with blue light,
we can't excite, it doesn't matter how many infrared photons we throw at that time,
it's not going to get excited because each photon doesn't have enough energy to excite an electron from the ground state to an excited state.
Yeah, so the contrast mechanism,
whether it's absorption or fluorescent or whether it's the reason that grass was green because it absorbs the red and blue photons,
it doesn't matter how much infrared light we shine on that grass,
we're not going to get that color that we were looking for because that's that moved away from the excitation, right.
So the contrast mechanism dictates the excitation wavelength.
But the depth penetration, if we wanted to go deep inside scattering tissues, we want to move away from the optical region and go into the infrared.
So there's a kind of trade off between depth penetration, spatial resolution and the contrast mechanism that we want to use.
So we need to start thinking about how we can kind of think outside the box to use
nonlinear optics to come up with this way to excite optical transitions that occur,
i.e. in the visible with excitation wavelengths that further into the near infrared so that we can see deeper into scattering tissue.
So scattering is inversely proportional to wavelength to powerful and everything else is proportional to that.
So we've got this mismatch in the properties of the excitation light and the contrast mechanism.
So that's what we're going to start looking at later when we move into kind of nonlinear optics.
How we're able to decouple the excitation wavelengths from the contrast mechanism.
That gives us the chemical specificity of that imaging system.
So kind of just to summarize, we've looked at spatial resolution and how it's determined by the great very criterion.
And it's proportional to wavelength. We convert that into merkel aperture to 3D imaging.
And then we discovered that scattering is a real problem.
And scattering favors longer wavelengths excitation sources, which is about with the spatial resolution and the contrast mechanism.
Yeah. So any questions. Did the infrared thing work well.
Yeah. So you can't just convinces you that we'd ideally like to work with infrared light to be able to see deeper into biological tissues.
And what's the other advantage of moving to infrared photons rather than blue photons?
In terms of the kind of damage and biological compatibility?
What do we know about kind of blue light and UV light?
Yeah, you learned something. So UV is higher energy.
Infrared is lower energy. Yep. So longer wavelength, like each photon has a low amount of energy.
So it's less damaging. So.
So biological systems can tolerate a lot more power in the infrared than they can in the blue or the TV, because you don't get this kind of ionizing,
excited, exciting electrons, which is how you get these damaging effects, cancerous effects and just damage within the tissue.
So we're going to be looking later about how effectively nonlinear optics allows us to
excite optical transitions with high resolution using near-infrared excitation wavelengths.
That's a kind of spoiler, but that's essentially what the trick that we're going to do so we can get the best of both worlds.
So we can get deep into scattering tissues and still excite things that occur in the physical.
Right. Okay. So any questions. So I'll see you all on Monday.
Um five minutes. Okay.
So see you later. And I'll upload the PDF derivation and early results.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, sure.
So. I think.
This is. Like.
You know, like. Oh.
My God, this is no such thing.
I know what I'm talking about. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Okay, so I. Don't know.
So you don't have problems? I think sometimes you have to.
Yeah. So, so called physics module.
So they also have the problems courses. But there are practice problems available on any.
And there's also always. Okay.
So when you get into ellipses this is all explained in the first lecture.
But it's it's divided boxes or it's boxes.
We have this topic box. And then there's a quiz interview topic.
And the lecture notes are stored in each box.
And then I can think I a visualization or scan that to the box as well.
So you've got the written derivations. Um this is important because you.
So I can see how well you focus.
Um, it's 70% exam in May and the other 50% is a group exercise where you work in groups to make sign to the science education video.
Um, and now I haven't told anyone about this assignment yet, so that happens after the midterms, so.
Uh, no. Okay, so so the physics students have midterms.
Not for this module. For the cohort. You don't put me lectures in that week because nobody turns up.
Because the midterms on Tuesday. So people wouldn't.
So just exhausted people wake up in the middle. Yeah. And then after that week I'll then introduce the group exercise.
But essentially what works for. And you make a video explaining one of the topics that we covered in the natural course.
And you pick from a list, uh, you get to film in research labs derivation.
And it's very fun. That seems to be a good way to learn how to do these kind of things.
Okay. Thanks. Um, is up. Um, um, there's a whole group, so I hope you get the same.
Okay. Yeah. I mean, generally those groups of people really enjoy.
And the motivated. Yeah. So it kind of means you go into the exam.
No. So. Yeah. That's true.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Everything ready and then just send you the pictures.
But this is not necessary. Thank you. I didn't know you said that.
Was it okay. Got it. Yeah. Natural science student.
Okay. Um, this one, the natural science. So how do you turn into an adult you like?
Okay, so in between the other natural science students and computing and, um, so it's only a tiny bit as we draw on to those modules.
And in lecture two, I've covered all of the bits from eMac and quantum that we're going to use.
Okay. So you just it's free press that you said so okay.
And then maybe like I can go to those people. Yeah I'm in the videos.
So really they're not too mathematical.
It's just a way of presenting the stuff that we just productions. Okay I think just.
Well, the way you to give me.