This is. This is really. If you like.
Oh. So sorry. I did not work there, but.
No. I mean, it was like.
Oh, yeah. Oh.
Yeah. Oh. Yeah.
So they said. Something.
Like that. I think.
There's. Just. Something.
Over. There. But it's just.
Yeah. And also as again guys think we can even really interesting.
In a little bit. So I think they got to if we can go to you guys during the weekend.
Nothing. So chair revision house you know.
Yeah. Pretty difficult to get out but it's a great so so years.
And then we did the introduction to the lecture course last week.
We kind of I gave you an overview of the film video optics and imaging.
And then I covered some of the prerequisite material from electromagnetism quantum and from your first year.
So you can actually reach all the way to a year ago to when you did waves.
And okay, particularly the harmonic driven harmonic oscillator stuff.
Yeah. And then this week we're actually going to start delving into the actual topic itself.
And we're going to start by looking at all possible imaging starting with contrast.
And this I think is my favorite lecture of the lecture course. You're going to find one.
Okay. So we're going to look at kind of in a bit more detail what we mean by image contrast.
And we're going to start to kind of look at some of the light matter interactions that we can exploit to provide contrast of the image.
Um, particularly as I mentioned in the introduction, we're going to focus on microscopy.
Can anyone remember why we focus on microscopy.
This that chuckles. To do with nonlinear optics.
So as I kind of hinted, you need to hit really high light intensities.
To excite nonlinear optical processes. And one of the ways in which we do that is to focus the light down to really small spot.
So that's why these methods lend themselves to to microscopic applications where you can achieve this very tight diffraction limited focus.
So we're gonna look at some applications of microscopy. Then we're going to start to look at the physical origins of color.
So we've already kind of looked at this idea. We've said boys cross green and it's because it's got a chemical inside it.
What's the name of the chemical that makes cross green. There's a sea.
Overfill in the coal plants in the plant cells.
So we're going to look at actually what is it about particular molecules that gives them color, that makes us be able to see them.
And then we're going to look at something called labeling. So how we can obtain controls by labeling.
And as I kind of alluded to in the introduction, you should all be familiar with this equation from last term.
What's this capital P called. Induced polarization.
And it's a vector. Yeah. So it's a vector field that tells you how your applied electric field,
how it induces a polarization or displaces the bound charges within that material.
And epsilon naught is a constant. And what's this funny shaped Greek character here.
Name of the letter in the Greek alphabet is chi. And what does it physically do in that equation?
So when you looked at this with Matthew last term, he probably kind of glosses over this and says,
we're going to assume that the material is isotropic,
in which case it's a scalar quantity, and it really just tells you forgiven electric field how easy it is to induce a polarization.
But what we're going to find out is that this thing is actually a property of the frequency of electric field that you're driving at.
So it depends on the wavelength of the light or the frequency of the electric field.
And it's also a tensor element. So it controls how this vector maps onto this vector.
So as we begin to look at if your material is organized into certain orientations,
the optical properties change depending on the axis at which you apply the electric field, which is kind of what you'd expect.
So we'll look at that in a bit more detail.
So in terms of this lecture course, it's the kind of tells us the difference between the different materials.
We're showing an electric field on that, on the material in the form of an oscillating electric field from a laser beam.
So from photons and it's the P that we measure and we measure p knowing what E is,
we try to work out what's inside this chi tensor, because that tells us about the material and how it responds.
And that's how we learn about the material. So if you think about imaging so particularly in science.
This can kind of become a little bit more specific about what we're trying to achieve.
So you can kind of write a list of reasons why you would use imaging scientifically.
Say you want to see things. Too small to see.
Bye. So this is a zoo, plankton and a marine organism.
And it's less than a millimeter in size. So this thing's too small to understand and study just by looking at it with the human eye.
I said we need magnification. Other examples where you've got things that are too far away to see.
So this could be like in astronomy where you want to look at planets and distant galaxies.
So you need optical systems to bring them closer.
And also we want to be able to see things that don't absorb or emit or interact with light in the visible range.
So as we kind of discussed last week, we we're used to we've evolved to kind of interact with the world around us based on this really narrow,
tiny, tiny window in the electromagnetic spectrum, which we call visible because it's what we can see.
But as we're going to explore in this lecture course,
there are lots of there's a vast range of the electromagnetic spectrum, all of which interacts with material.
And we want to design optical imaging system to enable us to visualize how these different regions of the spectrum interact with these materials,
and we can exploit that to access molecular composition structure in water.
We want to look at the distribution of molecules in biological tissues, for example,
in both space and time, to see how things evolve, how they interact, how they're orientated.
And this is this kind of. Trendy name warfare.
Chemical contrast is a combination of kind of morphology, how things are structured and the chemistry that underpins that structure.
And this is quite nice image. I quite like this one.
It's a zoo plankton kind of mining microscopic thing with wings that whatever they're called,
these kind of feel able to kind of swim through the water.
Um, and what have, what can you see in this organism?
There's light shining through it. So we're looking at life being transmitted through this organism.
What would you say? What's generating the contrast in this image?
There's certain regions of the organism that are black.
Yeah. So the oil has got pigments in it to detect light and it's absorbing the light.
So that's why it is black because it's not being shone through.
We've got other regions within the organism that are completely transparent.
Yeah. Does that mean it's empty? No.
So it doesn't necessarily mean it's empty. It just means it's not interacting with the light.
Then we've got regions here that are clearly coloured.
And what might be the cause of this colour in this. This is its kind of digestive system running down here.
What might make that coloured. So pigments.
So it's probably something like chlorophyll because it's been eaten kind of by plant material within floating around within within its environment.
So that's why it's colored. And then we've got these other regions where it's white.
And what causes this white appearance in the sample?
Reasonable. The clouds were white when we looked at that picture the other day.
So this is like scattering. So we've got loads of stuff in here.
Are various interfaces with the different refractive indices,
and it's causing the light to be scattered in all directions independent of its wavelength.
And that's what makes it white. So we're going to kind of this was a kind of we looked at this analogy on the first kind of lecture course.
One of the nice pictures,
because it shows kind of chemical kind of contrast of the grass absorption of the camera flame as well framed as well as black,
and then the scattering effect in the sky, which creates the, the orange and the white colors in the sky.
So this is kind of showing how transmitted information gives rise to contrast.
But as I kind of said, there are by accessing different wavelength ranges or different instruments, we can.
Optical imaging enables us to see chemical contrast or differences that were invisible to the human eye.
So this is a quite a since kind of drones, a kind of, I was going to say taken off the beaten path, isn't it?
So, um, yeah. Since drones have become very popular, this new field in the kind of chemical industry has become really kind of interesting,
where people have developed optical instruments that they can put into drones.
And by looking at various different wavelengths, both the visible and beyond the physical,
they can look at subtle differences in chloroplast absorption that tells them about the
kind of health or properties of the plants that they're looking at within the fields.
And this is this is becoming really kind of useful.
So the farmers can kind of kind of pay people to fly drones above that field.
They look at this kind of remote sensing application where they look at a broad
spectrum of electromagnetic radiation and then analyze it spectroscopic,
and they can map out regions of the field,
looking at the different ratios of the of the pigments within the plant that can tell you about where the health of that crop within the field,
whether it needs watering, whether it needs adequate chemicals.
And then the really cool thing that people have started doing is they take this map well, they fly the drone across the kind of crops sprout,
and then it links up with the GPS in the crop sprayer, and it tells it exactly what the dose on a certain part of the field so you can limit.
Chemicals are expensive for the farmer, so they'd like to use less of them.
And they're also bad for the environment. So using less is best is good for everyone.
So these maps can kind of tell the crop sprayer automatically where to deposit more or less of the stuff that that's sprayed on the field.
So this is just an example of how we look at plants.
And we can see that green without the limited range of the electromagnetic spectrum that our eyes are sensitive to,
but hidden within that signature, a really subtle details about the chemical properties of the tissue.
So by zooming in to kind of the kind of wavelength range that's important, and then analyzing that with optical instruments and computer code,
we can see things that are just invisible to us and kind of stretch the color scale across the red,
blue through to the green to really highlight differences that we can't see to the human eye.
So seeing small things is clearly very important as well.
So we we it's everyone put your hand up if you've not ever looked down a microscope.
You end up if you have. Yeah. Friends. Everyone is kind of familiar with what a microscope is, what it does.
What did you what were you looking at when you looked under a microscope?
Anyone care to share? Yeah. Tissues from a vegetable.
Some tissues from a vegetable. You said that like a secondary school experiment.
Was it like onion cells? Yeah, yeah. So you compare onion, and you look at the kind of the cells and how they're organized within the tissue.
But the onion. What did you see when you put the onion skin under the microscope?
You see the cells? Mhm.
And were they colored. Stained. Uh they can stage.
Okay. Perfect. So we're going to look at staging in a second. Did anyone look at unstained onion skin.
I see you all got given stained skin. So if it wasn't stained, you wouldn't see anything.
So the reason we use a microscope is to look at small things like biological cells.
Um, and we're going to the idea is that we use the magnification of the optical
system to enable us to see things that are too small to see with the human eye.
And we're gonna be covering this topic yesterday, yesterday, tomorrow,
when we start to calculate the diffraction limit for a given optical system for a given wavelength,
and we're going to define something called optical resolution.
Um, and as I said, we need a tight focus for most applications of nonlinear optical imaging.
So that's what we're going to focus on microscopes.
Um but today we're looking at molecular contrast how we get contrast of stuff inside our microscope.
Second, back to this idea of contrast. There are a couple of different ways that we can define kind of contrast or imaging modes.
So you can either look in reflection or transmission.
So reflection is when you take a torch or a light source like the sun or the light in the rooms that the light shines on the object.
And what we see is the stuff of the wavelengths that get reflected back.
So when we're looking at how the white paint on the wall, for example, reflects all of the light back,
and that's why it appears white, that's the edge around the board is black because it's absorbing all the wavelengths.
It doesn't reflect anything. Or we can look in transmission, which you're going to explore later,
where you might be looking through a stained glass window and you're seeing the light that's coming through the window.
And it's colored because different wavelengths have been absorbed.
So you're seeing what's missing, what's been absorbed by the sample. And again, here's a kind of example in just kind of reflection mode.
Imagine if we were to take an optical image of somebody in an airplane for example.
We would see that clouds and we can't see what's inside that pocket.
If we were to then move to the transmission image, and here we've moved beyond the optical region, we've gone into the infrared.
And the reason we've gone to the near infrared range is because in the infrared the clothing becomes transparent.
And what we're seeing is the kind of outline of the absorption of a well,
in this case, it's a gun in that patient, in the patient in that person's pocket.
And the source of light is the body.
So the body is emitting infrared radiation. And we have an infrared camera that enables us to create an image in the infrared.
And you can see that we get completely different contrast by moving from reflection to transmission and from visible into the near infrared.
So being able to move into different wavelength ranges enables us to look at completely different properties that we couldn't see with the naked eye.
And the reason that we can see these different properties of the object is because this chi
tensor that we looked at behaves very differently depending on which wavelength right you're in.
So moving from the visible into the infrared completely changes the type of optical interaction or contrast that we can see.
So another type of admission that we might want to use in terms of imaging and microscopy is fluorescence.
So in this case we take some molecules that have this property.
And we can look at look at this in more detail in a second.
You shine light of one wavelength onto these molecules and then they emit a different wavelength sometimes in the visible sometimes not.
And this gives us a kind of unique optical tag or signature that we can use to map out the location of this subset of fluorescent molecules.
And then of course, finally we've got scattering. So scattering in itself is a contrast mechanism.
So this guy's trousers and t shirt here white because they're scattering all of the light uh across the invisible range equally.
And that's why they feel white. So if we look at absorption to start with.
So this is a kind of stained glass window in a church window or a door or something.
And we've got panels of glass which are transparent which don't absorb any light.
And then we've got colored panels of glass which contain pigments that absorb specific wavelengths.
So they only transmit certain colors, and that's what makes them colored.
And this in itself is a kind of contrast mechanism that we can exploit.
Imaging. So somebody mentioned that you kind of stained your onion cells.
So you were to take the onion cells and and delight them so that you can see some color and contrast within the image.
And until I guess, taken up with different parts of the onion cell, enabling you to see some contrast and structure within it.
So wavelength selective absorption gives rise to color, but it also occurs outside of the visible range.
So we can go to the near UV at the uh high end of the visible range which gives rise to absorption.
And this absorption takes place through the excitation of electrons.
So exciting electrons from the ground state to the first excited state or higher.
So that's how the photon gets absorbed. And that's we're going to calculate in a second that gives rise to absorption in the visible to the UV rays.
If we're thinking about infrared absorption. So things absorb light in the infrared.
You know that things can absorb heat. So light comes in from the sun in the near infrared and it heats up.
Objects or objects get heated and absorb infrared radiation.
Here we're not exciting electrons. So the electron energy is far too high to to look to absorb in the infrared.
Here we're looking at exciting molecular vibrations.
So we take the molecules and the bonds between the atoms.
Initially that kind of sat still UV and excite and I ah photon comes in and excites vibrations within that bond.
And the photon gets absorbed and the Bowman's gets excited into its into from the ground state the first excited vibrational state.
So these are the contrast mechanisms how we get the color involved in the absorption.
And if we look at the kind of some of the kind of maths behind the absorption, we have this.
Um, a called absorbance. And it's the log.
It's defined as the log of the ratio of the incident intensity divided by the transmitted intensity.
And it's just the coefficient that tells us for a given wavelength of light, how much stuff makes it through.
So you get this factor A, and it's the log of the ratio of the stuff that went in over the stuff that comes out.
Yeah. So and it's done this way up because if if you get less light transmitted, you've got more absorption so that a absorbance gets bigger.
Yeah. So you can also get a transmission version of this where the other.
Well if we're looking at absorption solvents and our absorbance is given by this equation where we've got the concentration of the stuff.
Eight. Extinction coefficient of the stuff that's doing the absorbing and then the thickness of the sample.
The distance that the light travels through the material.
So you can see that the absorption is a combination of the concentration of molecules that you want to image,
the intrinsic property of the molecule in terms of how much light it absorbs per molecule,
and the optical path length that the light has to travel through that material.
So if we wanted to create an image where we want to be able to work out how much of the molecules are in the sample that we want to map out,
we need to have a very well defined thickness of the sample.
So in this case it's a glass window and everything is about the same thickness.
But for example, if we didn't know this was a window and it was, you know, the thickness of a window, well,
we've got the kind of dark red region within the glass and then the very light pale red region in the, in the glass.
We don't actually know whether this panel of the glass here is like three times thicker than the glass over here,
or if it's just got a lower concentration of the compound that causes the absorption here.
So it's very it's a very good method if you can take your sample and create a thin,
well defined thickness of that sample so that you know that the only variable is the concentration of the thing that you're looking for.
Yeah. So it's a great technique. And this is what you did when you looked at the onion cells.
But as we're going to see if we wanted to look let's say instead of taking a slice of something,
if you wanted to look at patients, um, a generic look at their eyes,
for example, you wouldn't really get many patients volunteering to have really thin sections of something they wanted to keep and carry on using.
So that's one of the disadvantages of absorption in that it has to be a relatively thin section,
not only because if it was too thick, you wouldn't get any light out the other side. But also to be quantitative, we need to make it quite thick.
So let's look at how. Yeah we've looked at this idea of molecules.
Some molecules are colored. Some molecules aren't.
Let's look at this kind of thing in a bit more detail and work out why some
things are colored and why some things are pigmented and why some things aren't.
So last Tuesday we revisited, um, absorption, hydrogen absorption.
And we took this calculation to show that for a hydrogen atom,
the energy between the ground state and the first excited state of that hydrogen
atom is given by the equation that you that you derived last term with Clare,
and it's 13.6 electron volts per.
And if you remember that one. Yeah.
It was only last Tuesday wasn't it. And we went through the calculation.
And then we said for hydrogen exciting it from the ground state.
The first excited state, a photon with that energy is about two is 1.2 122 nanometers.
And that's in the UV. Yeah. And I kind of said, forget about that.
It's in the UK. It's not going to be very useful. And the reason we don't like to, to use this for image contrast is because in this region, hydrogen,
for example, 122 nanometers right into the heart, you've pretty much everything absorbs UV light.
So this is why ultraviolet rays from the sun is very harmful,
because they and all the molecules in your body, unless they're protected by pigments, absorb this energy.
And this is what leads to some of the, um, cancers changes in the skin if you don't careful.
So everything absorbs in the UV and you kind of think that's brilliant.
If everything absorbs in, the UV will get control of everything.
The trouble is, it makes it very difficult to build an optical instrument that can visualize this.
So everything glass, the lenses in your microscope all absorb in this UV range.
I'm building an instrument that can image and create an image in the U.
V is actually extremely difficult. So quartz is a type of glass, um, which has a cut off at 600 160 nanometers.
So you can kind of just about work in that wavelength range, but it's still extremely problematic.
So we don't want to work in the UV mostly because everything absorbs in the UV.
So we don't really get a lot of useful contrast because everything would absorb.
So we want to work in the visible where we get this kind of selective absorption.
So at the kind of interface between UVA and the visible ray, this is where stuff starts to get interesting.
This is where some molecules absorb photons and some don't.
Enabling us to actually get contrast and see structure. So we looked at hydrogen absorption.
So we literally looking at atomic absorption exciting from the ground state to the first excited state of atoms.
So as we said everything has atoms. So you don't regenerate in contrast here.
So we have to think about what properties of a molecule can we use to give us transitions that happen in the visible range.
And we did this calculation on Tuesday.
I kind of said, okay, we're gonna use this model that you learned in quantum with Claire.
And you came up with this 1D infinite square.
Well, and using this as an approximation,
we can work out what sort of length scale we need to confine electrons to, to give us absorption in the visible.
Does anyone remember roughly what it came out as? So we I think I use green 500 nanometers as I kind of to estimate the length range.
What was the length range? Roughly. It was around point seven nanometres, wasn't it?
And as I said, this is much bigger than an atom.
So we're looking for molecules or structures that have this unique property that you
have electrons that are confined over a much larger length scale than single atoms.
And the types of molecules that have this are ones that have something called conjugated carbon carbon bonds.
They don't do chemistry at any level. We hand up to chemistry a high level.
Doesn't matter if you didn't. We're not going to do any chemistry. But those you guys should be quite happy with this idea.
You've come across pi bonds. Yeah. Does that does anyone else come across polygons before.
Oh, you all now said pipe bombs at this particular type of chemical bombs.
We have, for example, carbon carbon double bombs.
And you have these outer plane orbits where the electrons can occupy.
And the electrons in these particular orbits can become delocalized.
So when you get carbon carbon double bonds, the electrons associated with these pilots are allowed to exchange between the two atoms.
Yeah. So they become delocalized. So if you just have two carbon molecules, once you carbon bonds next to each other in a molecule,
you've got the carbon that the electrons from the two carbon shared in these pions.
So we've delocalized the electron the electrons from the atoms.
And if you take a chain of these carbon carbon bonds so you alternate between carbon single and a carbon double bond,
the electrons in these pi bonding orbits then become much more delocalized in the atoms,
and they become delocalized across a much larger length scale.
So by taking atoms or molecules and putting them together into these conjugated carbon double bond structures,
we can then have a situation where the electrons are delocalized over a much larger length.
And this is how we we get optical absorption in the visible range that gives rise to color.
So as an example of a particular, um, type of pigment called fluorescent, um is a collection of full um carbon rings.
And it absorbs in the visible that's around 500 nanometers.
So just to do a quick kind of back of the envelope calculation.
In a wake up. We're just going to demonstrate this kind of analogy that we can use.
So the the one, the infinite potential.
Well, it's just an approximation. But in most situations it turns out to be pretty accurate.
So this molecular this this molecule fluorescent, which has a whole bunch of these conjugated carbon carbon bonds across this dimension here,
we know that it absorbs at a peak wavelength of around 500 nanometers.
So for nine fold, to be precise.
And this is the energy associated with exciting the molecule or the electron delocalized across these pi bonds from n equals one to n equals two.
So we can very simply estimate the size of the molecule using the equation that Clare gave you last term eight times the mass of an electron squared.
And we're going from e and one to n two and two.
In that we get four. And squid one is just one.
It equals three squared. And we can rearrange.
That will help. Rooted.
0.4 times ten -90.
It's a point seven times ten to the -ten meters.
That's it. Just got back of the Imperial calculation based on this relatively simple
approximation that each week that we've applied using the 1D infinite potential.
Well, um, I'll upload this onto the early, so I'll scan the PDF and then make it available inside the lecture notes.
And so you have access to that. And then if we kind of people have studied these, these molecules using kind of x ray scattering methods,
and it turns out it's a pretty accurate estimate using with my point of.
That was so. Yeah. It turns out that simple approximation is relatively accurate.
Yeah. So it's the localization of the electrons across these points.
Conjugated double bonds gives rise to optical absorption.
So not many molecules have this kind of property that they have this combination of single and double carbon bonds.
And that's why most stuff that we look at under microscope isn't colors.
But some things are. And that's how we make use of it. And obviously there are lots of examples of pigments occurring naturally.
And it's not by luck that we get these things. These things have evolved.
So the clue the chlorophyll in plants, for example, the rich,
the reason that it's got these double bonds in here comes conjugated to absorb the
energy so that it invert that energy into chemical potential so the plant can grow.
And that's how we get photosynthesis. And then there were quite a few naturally occurring pigments, um, in mammalian biology and in human biology.
And these pigments like beta carotene for example, like one point carrots in order to develop to,
to, to um absorb light in such a way to protect chemical reactions from optical excitation.
So there are lots of other pigments in plants, not just chlorophyll, other pigments that kind of come in if the light to brighten up the plant,
to produce more of these pigments, to absorb some of the excess photons so the cloak has them get damaged.
So all these things have evolved over millions of years, and it's really quite clever.
So kind of evolution is kind of exploiting quantum mechanics to be able to absorb photons at specific wavelengths, to do specific functions.
So imaging pigments, particularly pump ology, is a kind of whole study in itself.
So when I was showing you that kind of picture of the the drone imaging the field and the subtle differences in the absorption,
plant biologists understand that these different pigments that the plants producing are telling us whether the plant is it needs more light,
it is less light. It's under oxidative stress, like it's it's being attacked by pathogens, for example.
So these pigments have evolved to do various jobs in biology.
And we can explain how they work through quantum mechanics. But it's all happened naturally to be quite cool.
Anyone familiar with indicators? Litmus paper. If when everyone come across this.
Yeah. So ever wonder how the color change happens? Did anyone explain how the color change happens?
So, and those of you that did chemistry, did you do those kind of titrations where you kind of have this like liquid and then this
long thing where you drip stuff in and then you keep dripping and it suddenly changes color.
So the physics behind this is that you've got so again, in kind of litmus paper and again,
in these kind of titration experiments, you've got molecules that have these kind of spin on that for a fluorescent molecule.
We looked at it's got these like combination of rings with conjugated double C bonds.
And it absorbs wavelengths. So a certain color depending on the size this L this region that you can find the electrons to if you take a molecule.
And this happens a lot. It's the chemistry. Really clever. So when you take this kind of um compound and it's neutral, it looks like this.
When you, when you put it into a high page, the H falls off or gets pulled off the end of the molecule.
And that changes the kind of potential that the electrons are in.
So the L changes slightly. And that's why you get a color change.
So likewise here when you get the acidic environment and you get an extra h added onto this nitrogen,
again it changes the chemical potential, a slight shift in L and you get a color change.
And that's why we get this kind of color sensitive chart that tells us how the pH is affecting that molecule.
And it's all to do with the kind of quantum mechanics of how the electrons are confined.
Any questions on that so far? Up against the good bit now.
So moved on to fluorescence. So we've talked about absorption and we've talked about light emission.
And I was uh a Polish physicist called Blonsky that came up with this diagram, which is kind of stuck.
And it's how we define or how we draw or shape schematics with optical absorption and emission.
Um, and it's this thing called the Blonsky diagram.
And we've already looked at kind of parts of the Blonsky diagram when we've been
looking at kind of electron transitions from the ground state to the excited state.
We just had two lines. We've got an n equals one up to n equals two.
Well that's exactly what we're looking at here. Except the Blonsky diagrams can take a bit more information.
So we've got our solid lines in at the bottom here.
So this is zero the ground state. And this is one the excited state.
The solid lines correspond to electronic states.
And then the not so solid lines the thinner lines correspond to vibrational transitions.
So within a given electronic states you've got lower transitions.
Can be excited through the infrared, so you can go from the ground state in a certain electronic level up to the first or higher vibrational states.
Or you can go up from the electronic state all the way up to an excited electronic state.
So the solid lines that we've got on the Blonsky diagram correspond to transitions where photons are involved.
So solid lines are optical transitions. So if Yano is going up you've got photon which is absorbed.
So you're exciting if we've got an arrow going down.
So we're at the excited electron state and we go down to the ground state.
So the the system the molecule has lost energy.
And that energy is emitted as a photon. And in this example it's fluorescence.
And what makes a molecule fluorescent is that it emits light at a different wavelength to the one that we shine on it.
And the way this happens physically is you go from the ground state, you excite your electron up,
and you excite it with more energy than the first excited state of the electron.
So it goes all the way up and it's excited an electronic state.
And this caused the molecule to vibrate.
But the molecular vibration quickly relaxes and it loses energy to the molecule through each like thermal dissipation.
We're now sat at the excited electric state.
And then eventually that electron gets fed up with being up there, falls back down to the first to the ground state, and we get photon emitted.
And it's a slightly shorter wavelength because we've lost some energy to the vibrations of the thermal relaxation.
And we get a longer wavelength for lower energy photon emitted.
And that's what we call for resonance. There are other things that can emit light.
So phosphorescence is another um, method of emitting light at different wavelengths.
But this is a bit more of a complicated system where you get like another pulse molecule
and you get this kind of transition of energy to a different part of the molecule.
There's more thermal relaxation, and then we get light emitted and even longer wavelengths.
Um, and this is kind of phosphorescence. Have you ever had these kind of stickers that you stick on your bedroom wall,
and they kind of absorb light from your room, and then when you turn the light off, the glow.
So is everyone. We've all come across these things. So this is phosphorescence.
You kind of stole energy in them. And it's a much longer, slower process.
And that's what's known as phosphorescence or something. And there's also luminescence which is like similar as well.
But we're going to focus on fluorescence. So solid lines are optical transition transitions.
Wiggly lines into some wiggly lines in the diagram are known optical transitions.
And this is through molecular vibrations and energy dissipation through heat.
So let's look at fluorescence. So fluorescence is a really widely used method for generating optical contrast.
And the reason people like it is because not many molecules occur naturally.
Emit fluorescent. You can take a specific subset of these molecules that happen to have this fluorescent property.
In plants, for example, plants are full of things that for us, because plants have been designed to absorb light, to interact with light.
And if you put a plant, a slice of plant tissue under the microscope, excite it with with blue what UV light.
And then put filters in different colors. You see all different sorts of structures that have different different fluorescent molecules in them,
that most stuff that we look at doesn't offer us. A nice example of a fluorescent molecule is something called quinine.
Has anyone come across quinine before we come across quinine.
So tonic water. Yeah. So does anyone.
Does anyone like drinking gin and tonic. So I've got one.
So this is why it's my favorite legend. Because there's an excuse to drink tea and tonic.
This is actually alcohol free gin and tonic until you try tonic.
If it wasn't genuine, if this was like an IV before Christmas, I'll be drinking a real gentleman.
So does that you. You'll know what you will.
Drunk gentlemen. Have you ever drunk gin and tonic in the club?
Well, if you did, you're familiar with these things called black lights.
You know, when you go to a club and they've got the fluorescent stuff on the balls?
So if you drink gin and tonic in a nightclub under UV light, it glows quite brightly.
And it's not the gin, it's the it's the quinine, which gives it that kind of bitter tonic, like the bitter flavour in the tonic.
So if you look at the ingredients on the gin and tonic and I'll be disappointed, this one doesn't have quite an impressive date.
But there's quinine in there, and it needs to be used for managing malaria treatment. Um, and that's why they put it in tonic water.
So what you'll notice is there's only two of these double rings which are conjugated, which means it absorbs in the oven.
So the length L that it's confined to is shorter than the length L we looked at when we looked at the previous example.
So it's not going to absorb light in the visible.
It absorbs in the UV, but it turns out that it does emit light in the visible after it's absorbed that UV.
So let's get you to try. There's not the gin that fluoresces.
It's the Quentin in the tonic water. So you can see this is a u.v. torch.
And you can see that it from us is blue. Yeah.
So we're like two lines and it's not working. So you can see.
We get this blue emission from the gin, from the tonic in the gin and tonic, which is caused by this effect of presence in the in the quintic.
Has anyone seen that before? It's quite well known.
I thought it was quite well known today. So next time you go, which nightclubs always go to an extra?
What they call these days. Do you not go to nightclubs like which clubs you go to?
I'm. Peace time. Peace? Yeah. Do they not have you realize?
They did when I used to go to them. So what are the other clubs that people can actually use?
The cabin. Today. How do you realize what they go?
Well, I know something like that happened. Yeah, the gin and tonic.
It started from the other. Side later on.
Um, there are other things that you can get. That glow in the dark that you can drink.
So I'll show you how to make some cocktails. So moving on to my microscopic control.
So remember we were talking about onion skin. Um, this is an onion skin.
This is these the cheek cells. So the other thing that you might have done at school, did you put, like,
a small in your cheek and then put it onto a slide so you can see the cheek cells.
So if you look at biological cells. Through a normal light microscope.
There's not a lot to see that. Transparent.
Colorless. I don't contain any tonic water, fluorescent or other things to my cheeks, or do not contain a tonic water.
If you haven't applied these compounds, it would just be colorless.
So one of the things that we want to try and do,
one of the goals in microscopy is to make the thing that we want to see the parts of the cell that we're interested in.
We want to make it stand out. We want to make it colored. So this is where labeling becomes interesting.
And somebody mentioned earlier I taken the onion skin and stained it with something.
Do you remember what stain you used? ID.
Yeah, so hygiene is quite a common stain.
It has colour and structure and enables things to be kind of stains them brown.
So there are various other methods that biologists have developed to stain tissues and cells so they can see contrast.
One of the most widely used methods in biology is immunofluorescence labeling.
So they take molecules very similar in structure to the fluorescent that we looked at and the quinine.
And using some clever kind of antibody chemistry, they can put the fluorescent molecules onto an antibody.
And then the antibody through the type of blood chemistry that binds itself selectively to certain things you want to look at.
And then you can make the cell fluoresce in these beautiful colors showing different structures.
So in blue we've got the nucleus of the cell.
So there's a fluorescent label that's been antibody conjugated to stick to compounds about the DNA in the nucleus.
And when you shine UV light on it it's blue.
The green fluorescent a different fluorescent chemical on a different antibody sticks to something called the cytoskeleton,
which is like the scaffolding, the host cell out of salts set up.
And that that fluoresces in green.
Um, and then these little red specks, um, these are probably something called mitochondria, which like the energy centers within the cell.
And this is got something you shine the UV light on and it's red.
So all these different molecules emit, they all absorb the same UV light.
They emit different colors. And that's how you see things. Another example is something called hematocrit an acid staining.
And this is used. This is the gold standard still to diagnose cancer.
And you take two dyes these on fluorescence. These just absorb.
And they the light that gets transmitted through these pigments appears pink and kind of a purple color.
The nuclei get stained with the heme a toxin. And that stains them that kind of bluish purple color and f.
And the connective tissue between the cells gets stained with the acid.
And that gives it the light gives the pink color. So this is a kind of piece of skin.
And you can see the kind of cells surface stained purple.
And then you've got the connective tissue topology stuff underneath which you can send pink.
And this is a kind of standard method called histo pull up histopathology staining with ancient
ink even toxin and is using and this is how pathologists are used to diagnosing cancer.
So they'll take a biopsy from a piece of your tumor. They'll take it out.
They'll slice it into a very, very thin section and then stain it with these guys.
And you get this kind of stained glass window effect. And these methods are still the gold standard for diagnosing cancer.
And they were developed back in the Victorian era. So the Victorians were the first to kind of microscope slides and realized
they could stain them with different chemicals to reveal cellular structure.
I mean, I'll be showing you some, some kind of results where we've been looking at this at the end of applications in nonlinear optics.
So here the chemistry is what drives.
It's chemical contrast. So the chemical selectivity comes from biochemistry.
The clever tags that you put on the biochemists at work have worked out which antibodies states the thing that they want to look for.
And we're not really using any physics here. The physics is hidden within the molecules, but we're not using physics to get chemical controls.
We're using biologists and chemists that know that they can specifically stain certain parts of cells and tissues with these antibodies,
and we're not doing any clever physics to listen to what. So the photons that come out.
So labeling is widely used.
It works extremely well and it's very effective. But it's not always appropriate.
So if you look at the kind of size of different molecules, they're defined by something called molecular weight which is the number of grams per mole.
So you know what a gram is do your mole is it's like a number Avogadro's number of atoms or molecules.
So if we look at proteins, one mole of protein would weigh between 10g and 100kg.
Yeah. So these are big molecules. If we then think about a fluorescent label there are around 350g per mole.
So if you were to stick your fluorescent tag on a protein,
the protein isn't going to notice it because the protein is ten is 10,000 to 100,000 molecular weight and the tag is only a few hundred.
So it's not going to affect how the protein behaves.
If we want to look for things like drug molecules and fatty acids, these things are smaller than the tag that you're going to put on it.
So it's going to change how it behaves inside the biological system.
And I quite like this analogy.
So if you think about kind of people monitoring kind of elephants in Africa and now stick like a one kilo GPS tag on top of a five ton elephant,
one kilos, quite heavy thing to carry around. If you're a five ton elephants, you're probably not even going to notice it's there.
So when the kind of park ranger gets his I-pad out and kind of tracks where the elephants are,
they've probably tagged 1 or 2 elephants within the herd,
and then they can monitor the movement of those particular elephants, and they're kind of making the assumptions.
They all stay together so they can see what the herd of elephants are.
If we took the analogy of sticking a fluorescent tag onto a fatty acid or a drug molecule,
it would be the equivalent of sticking like a transit van on top of the elephant.
So this time the elephant is going to notice like a van sat on its head.
And when you track the elephant moving around the Serengeti, it's not going to behave like all the other elephants in the herd.
So what you're going to observe isn't the natural nature of those molecules that you want to image.
So that's why it's quite useful to try and generate contrast of small molecules without having to tag them.
If you want to see proteins, it doesn't really matter at all what you stick on to it in terms of optically active molecules,
because they're tiny compared to protein.
If you want to look at really small things, these things are too small to be optically active in the visible way that we looked at.
And this is why we need to explore other approaches.
Now, looking at physics to try and get some interaction between the photons and those materials.
So that's a kind of summary of what we covered.
So light matter interactions that lead to optical contrast.
Those molecules absorbing pretty much everything absorbs in the UV, but very few things absorb visible.
We can label things to get contrast, but it's not always appropriate.
So we're going to start looking later at how we can exploit this light matter interaction to read what's hidden within collide,
to get more information out of the molecules, to understand what they're made of, and get help with the contrast.
Got it. Just finished on time. Any questions for you?
Okay, so see you tomorrow in the next 10s. All. Right.
Oh, well. I don't.
Know. I always thought there was, you know, in two days time, I.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, I think so.
I think so then I.
Think. We should just.
Have a cow. Cows. So that's why.
I was like yeah. So how about your about that.
Yeah. So that one is important but it's not quite straightforward to get on.
Yeah. Yeah. It's just opponents as. Well okay.
Yeah. Uh, the little lady banks.
So, um. Oh, what is that?
There's no, it's not very important. So it's going across multiple ones.